NAME

    curl - transfer a URL

SYNOPSIS

    curl [options / URLs]

DESCRIPTION

    curl is a tool for  transferring data from or  to a server using URLs.  It
    supports these protocols:  DICT, FILE, FTP,  FTPS, GOPHER, GOPHERS,  HTTP,
    HTTPS, IMAP, IMAPS,  LDAP, LDAPS,  MQTT, POP3, POP3S,  RTMP, RTMPS,  RTSP,
    SCP, SFTP, SMB, SMBS, SMTP, SMTPS, TELNET, TFTP, WS and WSS.

    curl  is  powered  by  libcurl  for  all  transfer-related  features.  See
    libcurl(3) for details.

URL

    The URL syntax is protocol-dependent.  You find a detailed description  in
    RFC 3986.

    If you provide a  URL without a  leading protocol:// scheme, curl  guesses
    what protocol you want. It then defaults to HTTP but assumes  others based
    on often-used hostname prefixes. For example, for hostnames starting  with
    "ftp." curl assumes you want FTP.

    You can specify any amount of  URLs on the command line. They are  fetched
    in a sequential manner in  the specified order unless you use  --parallel.
    You can specify command  line options and URLs mixed  and in any order  on
    the command line.

    curl attempts to reuse connections when doing multiple transfers, so  that
    getting many files from the same  server do not use multiple connects  and
    setup handshakes. This improves speed.  Connection reuse can only be  done
    for URLs  specified for a  single command  line invocation  and cannot  be
    performed between separate curl runs.

    Provide an IPv6 zone id in  the URL with an escaped percentage sign.  Like
    in

        "http://[fe80::3%25eth0]/"

    Everything provided on the command line that is not a command  line option
    or its argument, curl assumes is a URL and treats it as such.

GLOBBING

    You can specify  multiple URLs or  parts of URLs  by writing lists  within
    braces or ranges within brackets. We call this "globbing".

    Provide a list with three different names like this:

        "http://site.{one,two,three}.com"

    Do sequences of alphanumeric series by using [] as in:

        "ftp://ftp.example.com/file[1-100].txt"

    With leading zeroes:

        "ftp://ftp.example.com/file[001-100].txt"

    With letters through the alphabet:

        "ftp://ftp.example.com/file[a-z].txt"

    Nested sequences are not supported, but  you can use several ones next  to
    each other:

        "http://example.com/archive[1996-1999]/vol[1-4]/part{a,b,c}.html"

    You can specify a step counter for  the ranges to get every Nth number  or
    letter:

        "http://example.com/file[1-100:10].txt"

        "http://example.com/file[a-z:2].txt"

    When using []  or {} sequences  when invoked from  a command line  prompt,
    you probably have to  put the full URL within  double quotes to avoid  the
    shell from  interfering  with it.  This  also goes  for  other  characters
    treated special, like for example '&', '?' and '*'.

    Switch off globbing with --globoff.

VARIABLES

    curl supports command line variables (added in 8.3.0). Set variables  with
    --variable name=content  or  --variable  name@file (where  "file"  can  be
    stdin if set to a single dash (-)).

    Variable contents can  be expanded in  option parameters using  "{{name}}"
    if the option name  is prefixed with  "--expand-". This gets the  contents
    of the variable "name" inserted, or a blank if the name does not  exist as
    a variable. Insert  "{{" verbatim  in the  string by prefixing  it with  a
    backslash, like "\{{".

    You an access and  expand environment variables  by first importing  them.
    You can select  to either require  the environment variable  to be set  or
    you can  provide a default  value in  case it  is not  already set.  Plain
    --variable %name  imports the  variable called  'name' but  exits with  an
    error if  that  environment variable  is not  already  set. To  provide  a
    default  value  if  it  is  not  set,  use  --variable   %name=content  or
    --variable %name@content.

    Example. Get the USER environment variable  into the URL, fail if USER  is
    not set:

        --variable '%USER'
        --expand-url = "https://example.com/api/{{USER}}/method"

    When expanding variables, curl supports  a set of functions that can  make
    the variable  contents more convenient  to use.  It can  trim leading  and
    trailing white space  with "trim", it  can output the  contents as a  JSON
    quoted string  with "json", URL  encode the  string with  "url" or  base64
    encode it  with "b64". To  apply functions  to a  variable expansion,  add
    them colon separated to the  right side of the variable. Variable  content
    holding null bytes that are not encoded when expanded cause error.

    Example: get the contents of  a file called $HOME/.secret into a  variable
    called "fix". Make sure  that the content  is trimmed and  percent-encoded
    when sent as POST data:

        --variable %HOME
        --expand-variable fix@{{HOME}}/.secret
        --expand-data "{{fix:trim:url}}"
        https://example.com/

    Command line variables and expansions were added in 8.3.0.

OUTPUT

    If not told otherwise, curl writes the received data to stdout. It  can be
    instructed to  instead  save  that  data  into a  local  file,  using  the
    --output or  --remote-name options.  If  curl is  given multiple  URLs  to
    transfer on  the command  line, it  similarly needs  multiple options  for
    where to save them.

    curl does  not parse  or otherwise  "understand" the  content  it gets  or
    writes as  output. It  does  no encoding  or decoding,  unless  explicitly
    asked to with dedicated command line options.

PROTOCOLS

    curl supports  numerous protocols,  or  put in  URL terms:  schemes.  Your
    particular build may not support them all.

    DICT

        Lets you lookup words using online dictionaries.

    FILE

        Read or write  local files.  curl does not  support accessing  file://
        URL remotely, but when running  on Microsoft Windows using the  native
        UNC approach works.

    FTP(S)

        curl supports  the File Transfer  Protocol with  a lot  of tweaks  and
        levers. With or without using TLS.

    GOPHER(S)

        Retrieve files.

    HTTP(S)

        curl supports HTTP with numerous options and variations. It can  speak
        HTTP version 0.9,  1.0, 1.1, 2  and 3 depending  on build options  and
        the correct command line options.

    IMAP(S)

        Using the mail  reading protocol,  curl can download  emails for  you.
        With or without using TLS.

    LDAP(S)

        curl can do directory lookups for you, with or without TLS.

    MQTT

        curl supports MQTT version 3.  Downloading over MQTT equals  subscribe
        to a topic  while uploading/posting  equals publish on  a topic.  MQTT
        over TLS is not supported (yet).

    POP3(S)

        Downloading from a pop3 server  means getting a mail. With or  without
        using TLS.

    RTMP(S)

        The Realtime Messaging Protocol is  primarily used to serve  streaming
        media and curl can download it.

    RTSP

        curl supports RTSP 1.0 downloads.

    SCP

        curl supports SSH version 2 scp transfers.

    SFTP

        curl supports SFTP (draft 5) done over SSH version 2.

    SMB(S)

        curl supports SMB version 1 for upload and download.

    SMTP(S)

        Uploading contents to an SMTP  server means sending an email. With  or
        without TLS.

    TELNET

        Telling curl  to fetch  a  telnet URL  starts an  interactive  session
        where it sends  what it  reads on  stdin and outputs  what the  server
        sends it.

    TFTP

        curl can do TFTP downloads and uploads.

PROGRESS METER

    curl normally displays a progress meter during operations, indicating  the
    amount of transferred data, transfer speeds and estimated time left,  etc.
    The progress meter  displays the transfer  rate in  bytes per second.  The
    suffixes (k, M, G, T, P) are 1024 based. For example 1k is 1024  bytes. 1M
    is 1048576 bytes.

    curl displays this data to the terminal by default, so if you  invoke curl
    to do an  operation and  it is  about to write  data to  the terminal,  it
    disables the  progress meter  as otherwise  it would  mess  up the  output
    mixing progress meter and response data.

    If you want a progress  meter for HTTP POST  or PUT requests, you need  to
    redirect  the response  output  to  a  file,  using  shell  redirect  (>),
    --output or similar.

    This does not apply to FTP upload as that operation does not spit  out any
    response data to the terminal.

    If you prefer a progress bar instead of the regular  meter, --progress-bar
    is your friend. You  can also disable  the progress meter completely  with
    the --silent option.

VERSION

    This man page describes  curl 8.7.0. If you  use a later version,  chances
    are this  man page  does not  fully document  it. If  you  use an  earlier
    version, this document  tries to include  version information about  which
    specific version that introduced changes.

    You can always learn which the latest curl version is by running

        curl https://curl.se/info

    The  online version  of  this  man  page  is  always  showing  the  latest
    incarnation: https://curl.se/docs/manpage.html

OPTIONS

    Options start  with one  or two  dashes. Many  of the  options require  an
    additional value next  to them.  If provided  text does not  start with  a
    dash, it is presumed to be and treated as a URL.

    The short "single-dash" form of the  options, -d for example, may be  used
    with or without a space  between it and its  value, although a space is  a
    recommended separator.  The long  double-dash  form, --data  for  example,
    requires a space between it and its value.

    Short version options that do not  need any additional values can be  used
    immediately next to each other, like  for example you can specify all  the
    options -O, -L and -v at once as -OLv.

    In general, all boolean  options are enabled  with --option and yet  again
    disabled with  --no-option. That  is, you  use the  same  option name  but
    prefix it with "no-". However, in  this list we mostly only list and  show
    the --option version of them.

    When --next is used, it resets  the parser state and you start again  with
    a clean  option state,  except for  the options  that  are global.  Global
    options retain their values and meaning even after --next.

    The   following    options    are   global:    --fail-early,    --libcurl,
    --parallel-immediate, --parallel,  --progress-bar,  --rate,  --show-error,
    --stderr,  --styled-output,  --trace-ascii,  --trace-config,  --trace-ids,
    --trace-time, --trace and --verbose.

    --abstract-unix-socket <path>
            (HTTP) Connect through an abstract Unix domain socket, instead  of
            using the network.  Note: netstat  shows the path  of an  abstract
            socket prefixed with "@", however  the <path> argument should  not
            have this leading character.

            If --abstract-unix-socket is provided several times, the last  set
            value is used.

            Example:
             curl --abstract-unix-socket socketpath https://example.com

            See also --unix-socket. Added in 7.53.0.

    --alt-svc <filename>
            (HTTPS) This option  enables the  alt-svc parser in  curl. If  the
            filename points  to  an existing  alt-svc  cache file,  that  gets
            used. After  a  completed transfer,  the  cache is  saved  to  the
            filename again if it has been modified.

            Specify a ""  filename (zero length)  to avoid loading/saving  and
            make curl just handle the cache in memory.

            If this option  is used  several times, curl  loads contents  from
            all the files but the last one is used for saving.

            --alt-svc can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --alt-svc svc.txt https://example.com

            See also --resolve and --connect-to. Added in 7.64.1.

    --anyauth
            (HTTP) Tells curl to figure  out authentication method by  itself,
            and use the  most secure one  the remote  site claims to  support.
            This  is  done  by  first   doing  a  request  and  checking   the
            response-headers,  thus   possibly  inducing   an  extra   network
            round-trip.  This   is  used   instead  of   setting  a   specific
            authentication method, which  you can do  with --basic,  --digest,
            --ntlm, and --negotiate.

            Using --anyauth is not recommended  if you do uploads from  stdin,
            since it may  require data to  be sent twice  and then the  client
            must be able to  rewind. If the  need should arise when  uploading
            from stdin, the upload operation fails.

            Used together with --user.

            Providing --anyauth multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --anyauth --user me:pwd https://example.com

            See also --proxy-anyauth, --basic and --digest.

    -a, --append
            (FTP SFTP) When used in  an upload, this option makes curl  append
            to the target file instead  of overwriting it. If the remote  file
            does not exist, it is created.  Note that this flag is ignored  by
            some SFTP servers (including OpenSSH).

            Providing --append multiple times has no extra effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-append.

            Example:
             curl --upload-file local --append ftp://example.com/

            See also --range and --continue-at.

    --aws-sigv4 <provider1[:provider2[:region[:service]]]>
            (HTTP) Use AWS V4 signature authentication in the transfer.

            The provider argument is  a string that  is used by the  algorithm
            when creating outgoing authentication headers.

            The region argument is a  string that points to a geographic  area
            of a resources  collection (region-code) when  the region name  is
            omitted from the endpoint.

            The service  argument  is  a  string that  points  to  a  function
            provided by  a  cloud  (service-code) when  the  service  name  is
            omitted from the endpoint.

            If --aws-sigv4 is provided  several times, the  last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --aws-sigv4 "aws:amz:us-east-2:es" --user "key:secret" https://example.com

            See also --basic and --user. Added in 7.75.0.

    --basic
            (HTTP) Tells  curl  to  use HTTP  Basic  authentication  with  the
            remote host.  This  is the  default  and this  option  is  usually
            pointless, unless you use it  to override a previously set  option
            that sets  a  different  authentication method  (such  as  --ntlm,
            --digest, or --negotiate).

            Used together with --user.

            Providing --basic multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl -u name:password --basic https://example.com

            See also --proxy-basic.

    --ca-native
            (TLS) Tells curl  to use the  CA store  from the native  operating
            system to verify the  peer. By default,  curl otherwise uses a  CA
            store provided in a single file or directory, but when  using this
            option it interfaces the operating system's own vault.

            This option works for curl  on Windows when built to use  OpenSSL,
            wolfSSL (added in 8.3.0) or GnuTLS (added in 8.5.0). When  curl on
            Windows is  built to  use Schannel,  this feature  is implied  and
            curl then only uses the native CA store.

            Providing --ca-native multiple times has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-ca-native.

            Example:
             curl --ca-native https://example.com

            See also --cacert, --capath and --insecure. Added in 8.2.0.

    --cacert <file>
            (TLS) Tells curl to use  the specified certificate file to  verify
            the peer.  The  file may  contain  multiple CA  certificates.  The
            certificate(s) must be in  PEM format. Normally  curl is built  to
            use a default file for this,  so this option is typically used  to
            alter that default file.

            curl recognizes  the environment  variable named  'CURL_CA_BUNDLE'
            if it is  set and the TLS  backend is not  Schannel, and uses  the
            given path as a  path to a CA  cert bundle. This option  overrides
            that variable.

            The windows version  of curl  automatically looks for  a CA  certs
            file named 'curl-ca-bundle.crt', either  in the same directory  as
            curl.exe, or in the  Current Working Directory,  or in any  folder
            along your PATH.

            (iOS and macOS only)  If curl is  built against Secure  Transport,
            then this  option is  supported  for backward  compatibility  with
            other SSL engines, but it should not be set. If the option  is not
            set, then  curl  uses the  certificates  in the  system  and  user
            Keychain to  verify the  peer, which  is the  preferred method  of
            verifying the peer's certificate chain.

            (Schannel only) This option is  supported for Schannel in  Windows
            7 or  later  (added  in  7.60.0). This  option  is  supported  for
            backward compatibility  with  other  SSL engines;  instead  it  is
            recommended to  use  Windows'  store  of  root  certificates  (the
            default for Schannel).

            If --cacert  is provided  several  times, the  last set  value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --cacert CA-file.txt https://example.com

            See also --capath and --insecure.

    --capath <dir>
            (TLS) Tells curl  to use  the specified  certificate directory  to
            verify the  peer. Multiple  paths can  be provided  by  separating
            them with ":"  (e.g. "path1:path2:path3").  The certificates  must
            be in  PEM  format, and  if curl  is  built against  OpenSSL,  the
            directory must  have been  processed  using the  c_rehash  utility
            supplied with OpenSSL.  Using --capath  can allow  OpenSSL-powered
            curl to  make SSL-connections  much  more efficiently  than  using
            --cacert if the --cacert file contains many CA certificates.

            If this option is set, the default capath value is ignored.

            If --capath  is provided  several  times, the  last set  value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --capath /local/directory https://example.com

            See also --cacert and --insecure.

    --cert-status
            (TLS) Tells curl to  verify the status  of the server  certificate
            by using the Certificate Status  Request (aka. OCSP stapling)  TLS
            extension.

            If this option is  enabled and the  server sends an invalid  (e.g.
            expired) response,  if  the  response  suggests  that  the  server
            certificate has been revoked, or  no response at all is  received,
            the verification fails.

            This is  currently  only implemented  in  the OpenSSL  and  GnuTLS
            backends.

            Providing  --cert-status  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-cert-status.

            Example:
             curl --cert-status https://example.com

            See also --pinnedpubkey.

    --cert-type <type>
            (TLS) Tells  curl what  type the  provided client  certificate  is
            using. PEM, DER, ENG and P12 are recognized types.

            The default type depends  on the TLS  backend and is usually  PEM,
            however for Secure Transport and Schannel it is P12. If  --cert is
            a pkcs11: URI then ENG is the default type.

            If --cert-type is provided  several times, the  last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --cert-type PEM --cert file https://example.com

            See also --cert, --key and --key-type.

    -E, --cert <certificate[:password]>
            (TLS) Tells  curl to  use the  specified client  certificate  file
            when  getting  a  file  with  HTTPS,  FTPS  or  another  SSL-based
            protocol. The  certificate  must be  in  PKCS#12 format  if  using
            Secure Transport, or PEM format if using any other engine.  If the
            optional password  is not  specified,  it is  queried for  on  the
            terminal. Note that  this option assumes  a certificate file  that
            is the private  key and the  client certificate concatenated.  See
            --cert and --key to specify them independently.

            In the <certificate> portion of the argument, you must escape  the
            character ":"  as  "\:"  so  that  it is  not  recognized  as  the
            password delimiter. Similarly,  you must escape  the double  quote
            character as  \"  so  that  it  is not  recognized  as  an  escape
            character.

            If curl is built  against OpenSSL library,  and the engine  pkcs11
            is available,  then  a  PKCS#11 URI  (RFC  7512) can  be  used  to
            specify a  certificate  located  in a  PKCS#11  device.  A  string
            beginning with "pkcs11:"  is interpreted  as a PKCS#11  URI. If  a
            PKCS#11 URI  is  provided, then  the  --engine option  is  set  as
            "pkcs11" if none was  provided and the  --cert-type option is  set
            as "ENG" if none was provided.

            (iOS and macOS only)  If curl is  built against Secure  Transport,
            then  the  certificate  string  can  either  be  the  name   of  a
            certificate/private key in  the system  or user  keychain, or  the
            path to  a PKCS#12-encoded  certificate and  private key.  If  you
            want to use a file  from the current directory, please precede  it
            with "./" prefix, in order to avoid confusion with a nickname.

            (Schannel only) Client  certificates must be  specified by a  path
            expression to a certificate store. (Loading PFX is not  supported;
            you  can import  it  to  a  store  first).  You  can  use  "<store
            location>\<store name>\<thumbprint>" to refer to a certificate  in
            the     system      certificates     store,      for      example,
            "CurrentUser\MY\934a7ac6f8a5d579285a74fa61e19f23ddfe8d7a".
            Thumbprint is  usually a SHA-1  hex string  which you  can see  in
            certificate details.  Following  store  locations  are  supported:
            CurrentUser,     LocalMachine,      CurrentService,      Services,
            CurrentUserGroupPolicy,        LocalMachineGroupPolicy         and
            LocalMachineEnterprise.

            If --cert is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --cert certfile --key keyfile https://example.com

            See also --cert-type, --key and --key-type.

    --ciphers <list of ciphers>
            (TLS) Specifies which ciphers to  use in the connection. The  list
            of ciphers must specify valid ciphers. Read up on SSL  cipher list
            details on this URL:

            https://curl.se/docs/ssl-ciphers.html

            If --ciphers  is provided  several times,  the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --ciphers ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-CCM8 https://example.com

            See also --tlsv1.3, --tls13-ciphers and --proxy-ciphers.

    --compressed-ssh
            (SCP SFTP) Enables  built-in SSH compression.  This is a  request,
            not an order; the server may or may not do it.

            Providing --compressed-ssh  multiple times  has no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-compressed-ssh.

            Example:
             curl --compressed-ssh sftp://example.com/

            See also --compressed. Added in 7.56.0.

    --compressed
            (HTTP) Request a compressed response  using one of the  algorithms
            curl supports, and automatically decompress the content.

            Response headers  are not  modified  when saved,  so if  they  are
            "interpreted" separately again at a later point they might  appear
            to be  saying that  the content  is (still)  compressed; while  in
            fact it has already been decompressed.

            If this  option  is  used  and the  server  sends  an  unsupported
            encoding, curl reports an error. This is a request, not  an order;
            the server may or may not deliver data compressed.

            Providing  --compressed  multiple  times  has  no  extra   effect.
            Disable it again with --no-compressed.

            Example:
             curl --compressed https://example.com

            See also --compressed-ssh.

    -K, --config <file>
            Specify a text file to read curl arguments from. The  command line
            arguments found  in  the  text  file  are used  as  if  they  were
            provided on the command line.

            Options and their parameters  must be specified  on the same  line
            in the file, separated by  whitespace, colon, or the equals  sign.
            Long option  names can  optionally  be given  in the  config  file
            without the initial double dashes  and if so, the colon or  equals
            characters can be used as  separators. If the option is  specified
            with one or two dashes, there can be no colon or  equals character
            between the option and its parameter.

            If the parameter contains  whitespace or starts  with a colon  (:)
            or equals sign (=),  it must be  specified enclosed within  double
            quotes ("like this").  Within double quotes  the following  escape
            sequences are available: \\,  \", \t, \n,  \r and \v. A  backslash
            preceding any other letter is ignored.

            If  the  first  non-blank  column  of  a  config  line  is  a  '#'
            character, that line is treated as a comment.

            Only write  one option per  physical line  in the  config file.  A
            single line is  required to be  no more  than 10 megabytes  (since
            8.2.0).

            Specify the  filename to --config  as '-'  to make  curl read  the
            file from stdin.

            Note that to  be able  to specify a  URL in the  config file,  you
            need to  specify it  using the  --url option,  and  not by  simply
            writing the URL  on its  own line.  So, it could  look similar  to
            this:

                url = "https://curl.se/docs/"

                # --- Example file ---
                # this is a comment
                url = "example.com"
                output = "curlhere.html"
                user-agent = "superagent/1.0"

                # and fetch another URL too
                url = "example.com/docs/manpage.html"
                -O
                referer = "http://nowhereatall.example.com/"
                # --- End of example file ---

            When curl is invoked, it  (unless --disable is used) checks for  a
            default config file and  uses it if  found, even when --config  is
            used. The  default config  file is  checked for  in the  following
            places in this order:

            1) "$CURL_HOME/.curlrc"

            2) "$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/curlrc" (Added in 7.73.0)

            3) "$HOME/.curlrc"

            4) Windows: "%USERPROFILE%\.curlrc"

            5) Windows: "%APPDATA%\.curlrc"

            6) Windows: "%USERPROFILE%\Application Data\.curlrc"

            7) Non-Windows: use getpwuid to find the home directory

            8) On  Windows,  if  it finds  no  .curlrc file  in  the  sequence
            described above, it checks for one in the same directory  the curl
            executable is placed.

            On Windows two  filenames are  checked per  location: .curlrc  and
            _curlrc, preferring the former. Older versions on Windows  checked
            for _curlrc only.

            --config can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --config file.txt https://example.com

            See also --disable.

    --connect-timeout <fractional seconds>
            Maximum time in seconds that you allow curl's connection to  take.
            This only limits the connection phase, so if curl connects  within
            the given period it continues - if not it exits.

            This option accepts decimal values. The decimal value needs to  be
            provided using  a dot (.)  as decimal  separator -  not the  local
            version even if it might be using another separator.

            The connection phase  is considered complete  when the DNS  lookup
            and requested TCP, TLS or QUIC handshakes are done.

            If --connect-timeout  is  provided  several times,  the  last  set
            value is used.

            Examples:
             curl --connect-timeout 20 https://example.com
             curl --connect-timeout 3.14 https://example.com

            See also --max-time.

    --connect-to <HOST1:PORT1:HOST2:PORT2>
            For  a  request  to  the  given  "HOST1:PORT1"  pair,  connect  to
            "HOST2:PORT2" instead. This option is suitable to direct  requests
            at a  specific  server,  e.g. at  a  specific cluster  node  in  a
            cluster of  servers. This  option is  only used  to establish  the
            network connection. It does NOT  affect the hostname/port that  is
            used for TLS/SSL (e.g. SNI,  certificate verification) or for  the
            application protocols.  "HOST1"  and  "PORT1"  may  be  the  empty
            string, meaning "any host/port". "HOST2"  and "PORT2" may also  be
            the empty string, meaning "use the request's original host/port".

            A hostname specified to  this option is  compared as a string,  so
            it needs to match the name  used in request URL. It can be  either
            numerical such  as  "127.0.0.1" or  the  full host  name  such  as
            "example.org".

            --connect-to can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --connect-to example.com:443:example.net:8443 https://example.com

            See also --resolve and --header.

    -C, --continue-at <offset>
            Continue/Resume a previous file transfer at the given offset.  The
            given offset  is  the exact  number  of bytes  that  are  skipped,
            counting from  the  beginning of  the  source file  before  it  is
            transferred to  the destination.  If used  with uploads,  the  FTP
            server command SIZE is not used by curl.

            Use "-C -"  to tell curl  to automatically  find out where/how  to
            resume the transfer. It then uses the given output/input files  to
            figure that out.

            If --continue-at is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl -C - https://example.com
             curl -C 400 https://example.com

            See also --range.

    -c, --cookie-jar <filename>
            (HTTP) Specify to which  file you want  curl to write all  cookies
            after a  completed operation.  Curl writes  all cookies  from  its
            in-memory  cookie  storage  to  the  given  file  at  the  end  of
            operations. If no cookies are known, no data is written.  The file
            is created using the Netscape  cookie file format. If you set  the
            filename to  a  single  dash,  "-", the  cookies  are  written  to
            stdout.

            The file specified with --cookie-jar  is only used for output.  No
            cookies are read from the file. To read cookies, use  the --cookie
            option. Both options can specify the same file.

            This command line  option activates the  cookie engine that  makes
            curl record and  use cookies. The  --cookie option also  activates
            it.

            If the cookie jar cannot be created or written to, the  whole curl
            operation does not  fail or  even report an  error clearly.  Using
            --verbose gets a warning displayed,  but that is the only  visible
            feedback you get about this possibly lethal situation.

            If --cookie-jar is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl -c store-here.txt https://example.com
             curl -c store-here.txt -b read-these https://example.com

            See also --cookie.

    -b, --cookie <data|filename>
            (HTTP) Pass the data to the  HTTP server in the Cookie header.  It
            is supposedly the data  previously received from  the server in  a
            "Set-Cookie:"  line.   The   data   should  be   in   the   format
            "NAME1=VALUE1; NAME2=VALUE2".  This  makes  curl  use  the  cookie
            header with this  content explicitly in  all outgoing  request(s).
            If multiple  requests are  done  due to  authentication,  followed
            redirects or similar, they all get this cookie passed on.

            If no '=' symbol  is used in the  argument, it is instead  treated
            as a filename to read  previously stored cookie from. This  option
            also activates the cookie engine which makes curl record  incoming
            cookies, which may be handy  if you are using this in  combination
            with the --location  option or  do multiple URL  transfers on  the
            same invoke.

            If the filename is exactly  a minus ("-"), curl instead reads  the
            contents from stdin. If the  filename is an empty string ("")  and
            is the  only  cookie  input,  curl  activates  the  cookie  engine
            without any cookies.

            The file format of the file  to read cookies from should be  plain
            HTTP headers  (Set-Cookie style)  or the  Netscape/Mozilla  cookie
            file format.

            The file  specified  with  --cookie  is only  used  as  input.  No
            cookies are  written  to  the  file. To  store  cookies,  use  the
            --cookie-jar option.

            If you use the Set-Cookie file format and do not specify  a domain
            then the cookie  is not sent  since the  domain never matches.  To
            address  this,  set  a  domain  in  Set-Cookie  line  (doing  that
            includes subdomains) or preferably: use the Netscape format.

            Users often  want  to both  read cookies  from  a file  and  write
            updated cookies  back  to  a  file, so  using  both  --cookie  and
            --cookie-jar in the same command line is common.

            If curl  is  built  with  PSL (Public  Suffix  List)  support,  it
            detects and discards  cookies that are  specified for such  suffix
            domains that should  not be allowed  to have  cookies. If curl  is
            not built  with  PSL support,  it has  no  ability to  stop  super
            cookies.

            --cookie can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl -b "" https://example.com
             curl -b cookiefile https://example.com
             curl -b cookiefile -c cookiefile https://example.com
             curl -b name=Jane https://example.com

            See also --cookie-jar and --junk-session-cookies.

    --create-dirs
            When used in  conjunction with the  --output option, curl  creates
            the necessary  local directory  hierarchy as  needed. This  option
            creates  the  directories  mentioned  with  the  --output   option
            combined with  the path  possibly set  with --output-dir.  If  the
            combined output filename uses no directory, or if the  directories
            it mentions already exist, no directories are created.

            Created directories are  made with  mode 0750 on  unix style  file
            systems.

            To  create  remote  directories  when  using  FTP  or  SFTP,   try
            --ftp-create-dirs.

            Providing  --create-dirs  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-create-dirs.

            Example:
             curl --create-dirs --output local/dir/file https://example.com

            See also --ftp-create-dirs and --output-dir.

    --create-file-mode <mode>
            (SFTP SCP FILE) When curl  is used to create files remotely  using
            one of the  supported protocols,  this option allows  the user  to
            set which 'mode' to set on  the file at creation time, instead  of
            the default 0644.

            This option takes an octal number as argument.

            If --create-file-mode  is provided  several  times, the  last  set
            value is used.

            Example:
             curl --create-file-mode 0777 -T localfile sftp://example.com/new

            See also --ftp-create-dirs. Added in 7.75.0.

    --crlf
            (FTP SMTP) Convert line feeds  to carriage return plus line  feeds
            in upload. Useful for MVS (OS/390).

            (SMTP added in 7.40.0)

            Providing --crlf multiple  times has no  extra effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-crlf.

            Example:
             curl --crlf -T file ftp://example.com/

            See also --use-ascii.

    --crlfile <file>
            (TLS)  Provide  a  file  using  PEM  format  with  a   Certificate
            Revocation List that may specify peer certificates that are to  be
            considered revoked.

            If --crlfile  is provided  several times,  the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --crlfile rejects.txt https://example.com

            See also --cacert and --capath.

    --curves <algorithm list>
            (TLS) Tells  curl to  request specific  curves to  use during  SSL
            session  establishment  according  to  RFC  8422,  5.1.   Multiple
            algorithms can  be  provided by  separating  them with  ":"  (e.g.
            "X25519:P-521"). The  parameter is  available identically  in  the
            OpenSSL "s_client" and "s_server" utilities.

            --curves allows  a OpenSSL  powered curl  to make  SSL-connections
            with exactly  the (EC)  curve requested  by the  client,  avoiding
            nontransparent client/server negotiations.

            If this option is set, the default curves list built  into OpenSSL
            are ignored.

            If --curves  is provided  several  times, the  last set  value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --curves X25519 https://example.com

            See also --ciphers. Added in 7.73.0.

    --data-ascii <data>
            (HTTP) This is just an alias for --data.

            --data-ascii can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --data-ascii @file https://example.com

            See also --data-binary, --data-raw and --data-urlencode.

    --data-binary <data>
            (HTTP)  This  posts  data  exactly  as  specified  with  no  extra
            processing whatsoever.

            If you start  the data  with the letter  @, the rest  should be  a
            filename. Data  is posted  in  a similar  manner as  --data  does,
            except that  newlines  and  carriage  returns  are  preserved  and
            conversions are never done.

            Like --data  the  default  content-type  sent  to  the  server  is
            application/x-www-form-urlencoded. If  you  want the  data  to  be
            treated as  arbitrary  binary data  by  the server  then  set  the
            content-type     to      octet-stream:      -H      "Content-Type:
            application/octet-stream".

            If this  option is  used  several times,  the ones  following  the
            first append data as described in --data.

            --data-binary can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --data-binary @filename https://example.com

            See also --data-ascii.

    --data-raw <data>
            (HTTP) This  posts  data  similarly  to  --data  but  without  the
            special interpretation of the @ character.

            --data-raw can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl --data-raw "hello" https://example.com
             curl --data-raw "@at@at@" https://example.com

            See also --data.

    --data-urlencode <data>
            (HTTP) This posts data, similar  to the other --data options  with
            the exception that this performs URL-encoding.

            To be  CGI-compliant, the  <data> part  should begin  with a  name
            followed by a  separator and a  content specification. The  <data>
            part can be passed to curl using one of the following syntaxes:

            content

                This makes curl URL-encode the content and pass that on.  Just
                be careful so  that the content  does not contain  any = or  @
                symbols, as  that makes  the  syntax match  one of  the  other
                cases below!

            =content

                This makes curl URL-encode the  content and pass that on.  The
                preceding = symbol is not included in the data.

            name=content

                This makes curl URL-encode the content part and pass that  on.
                Note  that  the  name  part  is  expected  to  be  URL-encoded
                already.

            @filename

                This makes curl load data  from the given file (including  any
                newlines), URL-encode that data and pass it on in the POST.

            name@filename

                This makes curl load data  from the given file (including  any
                newlines), URL-encode that data  and pass it  on in the  POST.
                The name  part  gets  an equal  sign  appended,  resulting  in
                name=urlencoded-file-content. Note that  the name is  expected
                to be URL-encoded already.

            --data-urlencode can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl --data-urlencode name=val https://example.com
             curl --data-urlencode =encodethis https://example.com
             curl --data-urlencode name@file https://example.com
             curl --data-urlencode @fileonly https://example.com

            See also --data and --data-raw.

    -d, --data <data>
            (HTTP MQTT)  Sends the specified  data in  a POST  request to  the
            HTTP server, in the same way  that a browser does when a user  has
            filled in an HTML form  and presses the submit button. This  makes
            curl  pass  the  data  to   the  server  using  the   content-type
            application/x-www-form-urlencoded. Compare to --form.

            --data-raw  is almost  the  same  but  does  not  have  a  special
            interpretation of the  @ character.  To post  data purely  binary,
            you should  instead use  the --data-binary  option. To  URL-encode
            the value of a form field you may use --data-urlencode.

            If any  of  these options  is  used more  than  once on  the  same
            command  line,  the  data  pieces  specified  are  merged  with  a
            separating &-symbol. Thus, using  '-d name=daniel -d  skill=lousy'
            would    generate    a    post     chunk    that    looks     like
            'name=daniel&skill=lousy'.

            If you start  the data  with the letter  @, the rest  should be  a
            filename to read the data from, or - if you want curl to  read the
            data from stdin.  Posting data  from a file  named 'foobar'  would
            thus be  done with --data  @foobar. When  --data is  told to  read
            from a file like that,  carriage returns, newlines and null  bytes
            are stripped out.  If you do not  want the @  character to have  a
            special interpretation use --data-raw instead.

            The data for  this option is  passed on to  the server exactly  as
            provided on the  command line.  curl does not  convert, change  or
            improve it.  It is  up to  the user  to provide  the  data in  the
            correct form.

            --data can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl -d "name=curl" https://example.com
             curl -d "name=curl" -d "tool=cmdline" https://example.com
             curl -d @filename https://example.com

            See also  --data-binary,  --data-urlencode  and  --data-raw.  This
            option  is   mutually  exclusive   to   --form  and   --head   and
            --upload-file.

    --delegation <LEVEL>
            (GSS/kerberos) Set LEVEL to tell the server what it is  allowed to
            delegate when it comes to user credentials.

            none

                Do not allow any delegation.

            policy

                Delegates if and  only if  the OK-AS-DELEGATE flag  is set  in
                the Kerberos  service  ticket,  which is  a  matter  of  realm
                policy.

            always

                Unconditionally allow the server to delegate.

            If --delegation is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --delegation "none" https://example.com

            See also --insecure and --ssl.

    --digest
            (HTTP)  Enables   HTTP   Digest   authentication.   This   is   an
            authentication scheme that prevents  the password from being  sent
            over the  wire in clear  text. Use  this in  combination with  the
            normal --user option to set username and password.

            Providing --digest multiple times has no extra effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-digest.

            Example:
             curl -u name:password --digest https://example.com

            See also  --user, --proxy-digest  and  --anyauth. This  option  is
            mutually exclusive to --basic and --ntlm and --negotiate.

    --disable-eprt
            (FTP) Tell curl to disable the  use of the EPRT and LPRT  commands
            when doing active FTP transfers.  Curl normally first attempts  to
            use EPRT before  using PORT, but  with this  option, it uses  PORT
            right away. EPRT  is an  extension to the  original FTP  protocol,
            and does not work on  all servers, but enables more  functionality
            in a better way than the traditional PORT command.

            --eprt can be used to  explicitly enable EPRT again and  --no-eprt
            is an alias for --disable-eprt.

            If the server is  accessed using IPv6,  this option has no  effect
            as EPRT is necessary then.

            Disabling EPRT only changes  the active behavior.  If you want  to
            switch to passive mode you need to not use --ftp-port or  force it
            with --ftp-pasv.

            Providing --disable-eprt  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-disable-eprt.

            Example:
             curl --disable-eprt ftp://example.com/

            See also --disable-epsv and --ftp-port.

    --disable-epsv
            (FTP) Tell curl to disable the use of the EPSV command  when doing
            passive FTP transfers.  Curl normally first  attempts to use  EPSV
            before PASV, but with this option, it does not try EPSV.

            --epsv can be used to  explicitly enable EPSV again and  --no-epsv
            is an alias for --disable-epsv.

            If the server is an IPv6  host, this option has no effect as  EPSV
            is necessary then.

            Disabling EPSV only changes the  passive behavior. If you want  to
            switch to active mode you need to use --ftp-port.

            Providing --disable-epsv  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-disable-epsv.

            Example:
             curl --disable-epsv ftp://example.com/

            See also --disable-eprt and --ftp-port.

    -q, --disable
            If used as  the first parameter  on the  command line, the  curlrc
            config file is not read or  used. See the --config for details  on
            the default config file search path.

            Prior to 7.50.0  curl supported the  short option  name q but  not
            the long option name disable.

            Providing --disable multiple  times has no  extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-disable.

            Example:
             curl -q https://example.com

            See also --config.

    --disallow-username-in-url
            This tells curl  to exit if  passed a  URL containing a  username.
            This is probably  most useful when  the URL  is being provided  at
            runtime or similar.

            Providing --disallow-username-in-url multiple  times has no  extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-disallow-username-in-url.

            Example:
             curl --disallow-username-in-url https://example.com

            See also --proto. Added in 7.61.0.

    --dns-interface <interface>
            (DNS) Tell curl to  send outgoing DNS  requests through the  given
            interface. This  option is  a  counterpart to  --interface  (which
            does not affect  DNS). The  supplied string must  be an  interface
            name (not an address).

            If --dns-interface is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --dns-interface eth0 https://example.com

            See  also  --dns-ipv4-addr  and  --dns-ipv6-addr.  --dns-interface
            requires that the underlying libcurl was built to support c-ares.

    --dns-ipv4-addr <address>
            (DNS) Tell curl to bind to a specific IP address when  making IPv4
            DNS requests,  so  that  the  DNS  requests  originate  from  this
            address. The argument should be a single IPv4 address.

            If --dns-ipv4-addr is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --dns-ipv4-addr 10.1.2.3 https://example.com

            See  also  --dns-interface  and  --dns-ipv6-addr.  --dns-ipv4-addr
            requires that the underlying libcurl was built to support c-ares.

    --dns-ipv6-addr <address>
            (DNS) Tell curl to bind to a specific IP address when  making IPv6
            DNS requests,  so  that  the  DNS  requests  originate  from  this
            address. The argument should be a single IPv6 address.

            If --dns-ipv6-addr is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --dns-ipv6-addr 2a04:4e42::561 https://example.com

            See  also  --dns-interface  and  --dns-ipv4-addr.  --dns-ipv6-addr
            requires that the underlying libcurl was built to support c-ares.

    --dns-servers <addresses>
            (DNS) Set  the list  of  DNS servers  to be  used instead  of  the
            system default. The list of IP addresses should be separated  with
            commas. Port numbers  may also  optionally be  given, appended  to
            the IP address separated with a colon.

            If --dns-servers is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl --dns-servers 192.168.0.1,192.168.0.2 https://example.com
             curl --dns-servers 10.0.0.1:53 https://example.com

            See  also  --dns-interface   and  --dns-ipv4-addr.   --dns-servers
            requires that the underlying libcurl was built to support c-ares.

    --doh-cert-status
            Same as --cert-status but used for DoH (DNS-over-HTTPS).

            Providing --doh-cert-status multiple  times has  no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-doh-cert-status.

            Example:
             curl --doh-cert-status --doh-url https://doh.example https://example.com

            See also --doh-insecure. Added in 7.76.0.

    --doh-insecure
            Same as --insecure but used for DoH (DNS-over-HTTPS).

            Providing --doh-insecure  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-doh-insecure.

            Example:
             curl --doh-insecure --doh-url https://doh.example https://example.com

            See also --doh-url. Added in 7.76.0.

    --doh-url <URL>
            Specifies which  DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH)  server  to use  to  resolve
            hostnames, instead of using  the default name resolver  mechanism.
            The URL must be HTTPS.

            Some SSL options that  you set for  your transfer also applies  to
            DoH since  the name  lookups  take place  over SSL.  However,  the
            certificate  verification  settings  are  not  inherited  but  are
            controlled separately via --doh-insecure and --doh-cert-status.

            This option is  unset if an empty  string "" is  used as the  URL.
            (Added in 7.85.0)

            If --doh-url  is provided  several times,  the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --doh-url https://doh.example https://example.com

            See also --doh-insecure. Added in 7.62.0.

    -D, --dump-header <filename>
            (HTTP FTP) Write  the received protocol  headers to the  specified
            file. If no headers are  received, the use of this option  creates
            an empty file.

            When used in  FTP, the  FTP server response  lines are  considered
            being "headers" and thus are saved there.

            Having multiple transfers in one set of operations (i.e. the  URLs
            in one --next clause),  appends them to  the same file,  separated
            by a blank line.

            If --dump-header is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --dump-header store.txt https://example.com

            See also --output.

    --egd-file <file>
            (TLS) Deprecated option (added in  7.84.0). Prior to that it  only
            had an effect on curl if built to use old versions of OpenSSL.

            Specify the path name to the Entropy Gathering Daemon socket.  The
            socket is used to seed the random engine for SSL connections.

            If --egd-file is  provided several  times, the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --egd-file /random/here https://example.com

            See also --random-file.

    --engine <name>
            (TLS)  Select  the  OpenSSL  crypto  engine  to  use  for   cipher
            operations. Use  --engine  list  to print  a  list  of  build-time
            supported engines. Note that  not all (and  possibly none) of  the
            engines may be available at runtime.

            If --engine  is provided  several  times, the  last set  value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --engine flavor https://example.com

            See also --ciphers and --curves.

    --etag-compare <file>
            (HTTP) This  option  makes  a conditional  HTTP  request  for  the
            specific ETag  read  from  the  given file  by  sending  a  custom
            If-None-Match header using the stored ETag.

            For correct results,  make sure that  the specified file  contains
            only a single line with the desired ETag. An empty file  is parsed
            as an empty ETag.

            Use  the  option  --etag-save  to  first  save  the  ETag  from  a
            response, and then use  this option to  compare against the  saved
            ETag in a subsequent request.

            If --etag-compare is  provided several times,  the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --etag-compare etag.txt https://example.com

            See also --etag-save and --time-cond. Added in 7.68.0.

    --etag-save <file>
            (HTTP) This option saves  an HTTP ETag  to the specified file.  An
            ETag is a caching related header, usually returned in a response.

            If no ETag is sent by the server, an empty file is created.

            If --etag-save is provided  several times, the  last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --etag-save storetag.txt https://example.com

            See also --etag-compare. Added in 7.68.0.

    --expect100-timeout <seconds>
            (HTTP) Maximum time in seconds that  you allow curl to wait for  a
            100-continue response  when curl  emits an  Expects:  100-continue
            header in  its request.  By default  curl waits  one second.  This
            option  accepts  decimal  values!  When  curl  stops  waiting,  it
            continues as if the response has been received.

            The decimal value  needs to provided  using a  dot (.) as  decimal
            separator -  not  the local  version even  if  it might  be  using
            another separator.

            If --expect100-timeout  is provided  several times,  the last  set
            value is used.

            Example:
             curl --expect100-timeout 2.5 -T file https://example.com

            See also --connect-timeout.

    --fail-early
            Fail and exit on the first detected transfer error.

            When curl is used  to do multiple  transfers on the command  line,
            it attempts to operate on each given URL, one by one.  By default,
            it ignores errors if there are more URLs given and the  last URL's
            success determines  the error  code curl  returns. Early  failures
            are "hidden" by subsequent successful transfers.

            Using this  option, curl  instead returns  an error  on the  first
            transfer that fails, independent  of the amount  of URLs that  are
            given on  the command  line.  This way,  no transfer  failures  go
            undetected by scripts and similar.

            This option does not imply --fail, which causes transfers to  fail
            due to  the server's HTTP  status code.  You can  combine the  two
            options, however  note  --fail  is not  global  and  is  therefore
            contained by --next.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            Providing  --fail-early  multiple  times  has  no  extra   effect.
            Disable it again with --no-fail-early.

            Example:
             curl --fail-early https://example.com https://two.example

            See also --fail and --fail-with-body. Added in 7.52.0.

    --fail-with-body
            (HTTP) Return an error  on server errors  where the HTTP  response
            code is  400 or  greater). In  normal cases  when  an HTTP  server
            fails to deliver a document,  it returns an HTML document  stating
            so (which often  also describes  why and more).  This flag  allows
            curl to output and save that content but also to return error 22.

            This is an alternative option to --fail which makes curl  fail for
            the same circumstances but without saving the content.

            Providing --fail-with-body  multiple times  has no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-fail-with-body.

            Example:
             curl --fail-with-body https://example.com

            See  also  --fail  and  --fail-early.  This  option  is   mutually
            exclusive to --fail. Added in 7.76.0.

    -f, --fail
            (HTTP) Fail fast with no output  at all on server errors. This  is
            useful to  enable scripts  and users  to better  deal with  failed
            attempts. In normal cases when  an HTTP server fails to deliver  a
            document, it  returns an  HTML document  stating so  (which  often
            also describes  why  and  more).  This  flag  prevents  curl  from
            outputting that and return error 22.

            This method  is  not  fail-safe  and  there  are  occasions  where
            non-successful  response  codes  slip  through,  especially   when
            authentication is involved (response codes 401 and 407).

            Providing --fail multiple  times has no  extra effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-fail.

            Example:
             curl --fail https://example.com

            See  also  --fail-with-body  and  --fail-early.  This  option   is
            mutually exclusive to --fail-with-body.

    --false-start
            (TLS) Tells  curl to  use false  start during  the TLS  handshake.
            False  start  is  a  mode  where  a  TLS  client   starts  sending
            application data before verifying  the server's Finished  message,
            thus saving a round trip when performing a full handshake.

            This is currently  only implemented  in the  Secure Transport  (on
            iOS 7.0 or later, or OS X 10.9 or later) backend.

            Providing  --false-start  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-false-start.

            Example:
             curl --false-start https://example.com

            See also --tcp-fastopen.

    --form-escape
            (HTTP) Tells curl to  pass on names  of multipart form fields  and
            files using backslash-escaping instead of percent-encoding.

            If --form-escape is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --form-escape -F 'field\name=curl' -F 'file=@load"this' https://example.com

            See also --form. Added in 7.81.0.

    --form-string <name=string>
            (HTTP SMTP IMAP) Similar  to --form except  that the value  string
            for the  named  parameter  is  used literally.  Leading  @  and  <
            characters, and the ";type=" string  in the value have no  special
            meaning.  Use this  in  preference  to  --form  if  there  is  any
            possibility that the string value  may accidentally trigger the  @
            or < features of --form.

            --form-string can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --form-string "name=data" https://example.com

            See also --form.

    -F, --form <name=content>
            (HTTP SMTP IMAP) For HTTP protocol family, this lets curl  emulate
            a filled-in form in  which a user  has pressed the submit  button.
            This  causes   curl   to   POST  data   using   the   Content-Type
            multipart/form-data according to RFC 2388.

            For SMTP  and  IMAP protocols,  this is  the  means to  compose  a
            multipart mail message to transmit.

            This  enables  uploading  of  binary  files  etc.  To  force   the
            'content' part to be a file,  prefix the filename with an @  sign.
            To just  get the content  part from  a file,  prefix the  filename
            with the symbol <. The difference  between @ and < is then that  @
            makes a file get attached in the post as a file upload,  while the
            < makes  a text  field and  just get  the contents  for that  text
            field from a file.

            Tell curl to read content from stdin instead of a file by  using -
            as filename. This goes for both @ and < constructs. When  stdin is
            used,  the contents  is  buffered  in  memory  first  by  curl  to
            determine its size and allow a possible resend. Defining a  part's
            data from  a  named non-regular  file (such  as  a named  pipe  or
            similar) is  not  subject to  buffering  and is  instead  read  at
            transmission time;  since  the full  size  is unknown  before  the
            transfer starts, such data is sent as chunks by HTTP  and rejected
            by IMAP.

            Example: send an image to  an HTTP server, where 'profile' is  the
            name of  the form-field  to  which the  file portrait.jpg  is  the
            input:

                curl -F profile=@portrait.jpg https://example.com/upload.cgi

            Example: send your name  and shoe size in  two text fields to  the
            server:

                curl -F name=John -F shoesize=11 https://example.com/

            Example: send your essay  in a text field  to the server. Send  it
            as a plain text  field, but get the contents  for it from a  local
            file:

                curl -F "story=<hugefile.txt" https://example.com/

            You can also tell curl what Content-Type to use by  using 'type=',
            in a manner similar to:

                curl -F "web=@index.html;type=text/html" example.com

            or

                curl -F "name=daniel;type=text/foo" example.com

            You can also  explicitly change the  name field  of a file  upload
            part by setting filename=, like this:

                curl -F "file=@localfile;filename=nameinpost" example.com

            If filename/path  contains  ','  or  ';', it  must  be  quoted  by
            double-quotes like:

                curl -F "file=@\"local,file\";filename=\"name;in;post\"" example.com

            or

                curl -F 'file=@"local,file";filename="name;in;post"' example.com

            Note that  if  a filename/path  is  quoted by  double-quotes,  any
            double-quote or backslash within the  filename must be escaped  by
            backslash.

            Quoting must  also be  applied  to non-file  data if  it  contains
            semicolons, leading/trailing spaces or leading double quotes:

                curl -F 'colors="red; green; blue";type=text/x-myapp' example.com

            You can add custom headers to the field by setting headers=, like

                curl -F "submit=OK;headers=\"X-submit-type: OK\"" example.com

            or

                curl -F "submit=OK;headers=@headerfile" example.com

            The headers= keyword  may appear  more that once  and above  notes
            about quoting  apply. When  headers are  read from  a file,  Empty
            lines and lines starting with  '#' are comments and ignored;  each
            header can be folded by  splitting between two words and  starting
            the continuation line with a space; embedded carriage-returns  and
            trailing spaces are stripped. Here is an example of a  header file
            contents:

                # This file contain two headers.
                X-header-1: this is a header

                # The following header is folded.
                X-header-2: this is
                 another header

            To  support  sending  multipart  mail  messages,  the  syntax   is
            extended as follows:

            - name can be  omitted: the equal sign  is the first character  of
            the argument,

            - if data starts with '(', this signals to start a  new multipart:
            it can be followed by a content type specification.

            - a multipart can be terminated with a '=)' argument.

            Example:  the  following   command  sends  an   SMTP  mime   email
            consisting in an  inline part  in two  alternative formats:  plain
            text and HTML. It attaches a text file:

                curl -F '=(;type=multipart/alternative' \
                     -F '=plain text message' \
                     -F '= <body>HTML message</body>;type=text/html' \
                     -F '=)' -F '=@textfile.txt' ...  smtp://example.com

            Data  can  be  encoded  for  transfer  using  encoder=.  Available
            encodings are binary  and 8bit  that do nothing  else than  adding
            the  corresponding  Content-Transfer-Encoding  header,  7bit  that
            only   rejects   8-bit   characters   with   a   transfer   error,
            quoted-printable and  base64 that  encodes data  according to  the
            corresponding schemes, limiting lines length to 76 characters.

            Example: send multipart mail with a quoted-printable text  message
            and a base64 attached file:

                curl -F '=text message;encoder=quoted-printable' \
                     -F '=@localfile;encoder=base64' ... smtp://example.com

            See further examples and details in the MANUAL.

            --form can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --form "name=curl" --form "file=@loadthis" https://example.com

            See also --data, --form-string  and --form-escape. This option  is
            mutually exclusive to --data and --head and --upload-file.

    --ftp-account <data>
            (FTP) When an FTP  server asks for  "account data" after  username
            and password has been  provided, this data  is sent off using  the
            ACCT command.

            If --ftp-account is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --ftp-account "mr.robot" ftp://example.com/

            See also --user.

    --ftp-alternative-to-user <command>
            (FTP) If authenticating  with the  USER and  PASS commands  fails,
            send  this  command.  When   connecting  to  Tumbleweed's   Secure
            Transport server  over  FTPS  using a  client  certificate,  using
            "SITE AUTH" tells  the server  to retrieve the  username from  the
            certificate.

            If --ftp-alternative-to-user is provided  several times, the  last
            set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --ftp-alternative-to-user "U53r" ftp://example.com

            See also --ftp-account and --user.

    --ftp-create-dirs
            (FTP SFTP)  When an FTP  or SFTP  URL/operation uses  a path  that
            does not currently exist on  the server, the standard behavior  of
            curl is  to fail.  Using  this option,  curl instead  attempts  to
            create missing directories.

            Providing --ftp-create-dirs multiple  times has  no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-ftp-create-dirs.

            Example:
             curl --ftp-create-dirs -T file ftp://example.com/remote/path/file

            See also --create-dirs.

    --ftp-method <method>
            (FTP) Control what method  curl should use to  reach a file on  an
            FTP(S) server. The method argument should be one of the  following
            alternatives:

            multicwd

                curl does a  single CWD operation  for each  path part in  the
                given URL.  For deep  hierarchies  this means  many  commands.
                This is  how RFC  1738 says  it should  be done.  This is  the
                default but the slowest behavior.

            nocwd

                curl does no CWD  at all. curl does  SIZE, RETR, STOR etc  and
                give a full path  to the server  for all these commands.  This
                is the fastest behavior.

            singlecwd

                curl does  one CWD  with the  full target  directory and  then
                operates on the file "normally"  (like in the multicwd  case).
                This is  somewhat more  standards compliant  than 'nocwd'  but
                without the full penalty of 'multicwd'.

            If --ftp-method is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl --ftp-method multicwd ftp://example.com/dir1/dir2/file
             curl --ftp-method nocwd ftp://example.com/dir1/dir2/file
             curl --ftp-method singlecwd ftp://example.com/dir1/dir2/file

            See also --list-only.

    --ftp-pasv
            (FTP) Use passive  mode for  the data connection.  Passive is  the
            internal default behavior, but  using this option  can be used  to
            override a previous --ftp-port option.

            Reversing an enforced passive  really is not  doable but you  must
            then instead enforce the correct --ftp-port again.

            Passive mode  means that  curl tries  the EPSV  command first  and
            then PASV, unless --disable-epsv is used.

            Providing --ftp-pasv multiple times  has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-ftp-pasv.

            Example:
             curl --ftp-pasv ftp://example.com/

            See also --disable-epsv.

    -P, --ftp-port <address>
            (FTP)  Reverses   the   default  initiator/listener   roles   when
            connecting with FTP. This option makes curl use active mode.  curl
            then tells the server  to connect back  to the client's  specified
            address and port, while passive  mode asks the server to setup  an
            IP address and port for it to connect to. <address> should  be one
            of:

            interface

                e.g. eth0 to specify which interface's IP address you want  to
                use (Unix only)

            IP address

                e.g. 192.168.10.1 to specify the exact IP address

            hostname

                e.g. my.host.domain to specify the machine

            -

                make curl pick the  same IP address  that is already used  for
                the control connection. This is the recommended choice.

        .RE .IP

                Disable the use of PORT  with --ftp-pasv. Disable the  attempt
                to  use   the  EPRT   command  instead   of  PORT   by   using
                --disable-eprt. EPRT is really PORT++.

                You can  also  append ":[start]-[end]"  to  the right  of  the
                address, to tell curl what  TCP port range to use. That  means
                you specify a port range, from  a lower to a higher number.  A
                single number works  as well,  but do note  that it  increases
                the risk of failure since the port may not be available.

            If --ftp-port is  provided several  times, the last  set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl -P - ftp:/example.com
             curl -P eth0 ftp:/example.com
             curl -P 192.168.0.2 ftp:/example.com

            See also --ftp-pasv and --disable-eprt.

    --ftp-pret
            (FTP) Tell curl  to send a  PRET command  before PASV (and  EPSV).
            Certain FTP  servers,  mainly drftpd,  require  this  non-standard
            command for  directory listings  as well  as up  and downloads  in
            PASV mode.

            Providing --ftp-pret multiple times  has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-ftp-pret.

            Example:
             curl --ftp-pret ftp://example.com/

            See also --ftp-port and --ftp-pasv.

    --ftp-skip-pasv-ip
            (FTP) Tell curl to not use  the IP address the server suggests  in
            its response to curl's  PASV command when  curl connects the  data
            connection. Instead curl  reuses the  same IP  address it  already
            uses for the control connection.

            This option is enabled by default (added in 7.74.0).

            This option has no  effect if PORT, EPRT  or EPSV is used  instead
            of PASV.

            Providing --ftp-skip-pasv-ip multiple times  has no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-ftp-skip-pasv-ip.

            Example:
             curl --ftp-skip-pasv-ip ftp://example.com/

            See also --ftp-pasv.

    --ftp-ssl-ccc-mode <active/passive>
            (FTP) Sets the CCC  mode. The passive  mode does not initiate  the
            shutdown, but instead waits for the server to do it, and  does not
            reply to the shutdown from  the server. The active mode  initiates
            the shutdown and waits for a reply from the server.

            Providing --ftp-ssl-ccc-mode multiple times  has no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-ftp-ssl-ccc-mode.

            Example:
             curl --ftp-ssl-ccc-mode active --ftp-ssl-ccc ftps://example.com/

            See also --ftp-ssl-ccc.

    --ftp-ssl-ccc
            (FTP) Use  CCC  (Clear Command  Channel)  Shuts down  the  SSL/TLS
            layer after  authenticating.  The  rest  of  the  control  channel
            communication is  be  unencrypted.  This  allows  NAT  routers  to
            follow the FTP transaction. The default mode is passive.

            Providing  --ftp-ssl-ccc  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-ftp-ssl-ccc.

            Example:
             curl --ftp-ssl-ccc ftps://example.com/

            See also --ssl and --ftp-ssl-ccc-mode.

    --ftp-ssl-control
            (FTP) Require  SSL/TLS  for the  FTP  login, clear  for  transfer.
            Allows secure  authentication,  but non-encrypted  data  transfers
            for efficiency. Fails the transfer if the server does not  support
            SSL/TLS.

            Providing --ftp-ssl-control multiple  times has  no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-ftp-ssl-control.

            Example:
             curl --ftp-ssl-control ftp://example.com

            See also --ssl.

    -G, --get
            (HTTP) When  used,  this  option makes  all  data  specified  with
            --data, --data-binary or  --data-urlencode to be  used in an  HTTP
            GET request instead of  the POST request  that otherwise would  be
            used. The data is appended to the URL with a '?' separator.

            If used  in combination  with  --head, the  POST data  is  instead
            appended to the URL with a HEAD request.

            Providing --get multiple  times has  no extra  effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-get.

            Examples:
             curl --get https://example.com
             curl --get -d "tool=curl" -d "age=old" https://example.com
             curl --get -I -d "tool=curl" https://example.com

            See also --data and --request.

    -g, --globoff
            This option switches off the  "URL globbing parser". When you  set
            this option, you can  specify URLs that  contain the letters  {}[]
            without  having  curl  itself  interpret  them.  Note  that  these
            letters are  not normal  legal  URL contents  but they  should  be
            encoded according to the URI standard.

            Providing --globoff multiple  times has no  extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-globoff.

            Example:
             curl -g "https://example.com/{[]}}}}"

            See also --config and --disable.

    --happy-eyeballs-timeout-ms <milliseconds>
            Happy Eyeballs is an  algorithm that attempts  to connect to  both
            IPv4 and  IPv6  addresses  for dual-stack  hosts,  giving  IPv6  a
            head-start of the  specified number of  milliseconds. If the  IPv6
            address  cannot  be  connected  to   within  that  time,  then   a
            connection attempt is made  to the IPv4  address in parallel.  The
            first connection to be established is the one that is used.

            The range of  suggested useful values  is limited. Happy  Eyeballs
            RFC 6555  says  "It is  RECOMMENDED  that connection  attempts  be
            paced 150-250 ms  apart to balance  human factors against  network
            load." libcurl currently  defaults to 200  ms. Firefox and  Chrome
            currently default to 300 ms.

            If --happy-eyeballs-timeout-ms  is  provided  several  times,  the
            last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --happy-eyeballs-timeout-ms 500 https://example.com

            See also --max-time and --connect-timeout. Added in 7.59.0.

    --haproxy-clientip <IP address>
            (HTTP) Sets a  client IP in  HAProxy PROXY  protocol v1 header  at
            the beginning of the connection.

            For valid requests, IPv4 addresses  must be indicated as a  series
            of exactly 4 integers in  the range [0..255] inclusive written  in
            decimal representation separated by  exactly one dot between  each
            other. Heading zeroes  are not  permitted in front  of numbers  in
            order to avoid  any possible  confusion with  octal numbers.  IPv6
            addresses must  be indicated  as series  of 4  hexadecimal  digits
            (upper or  lower case)  delimited by  colons between  each  other,
            with the acceptance of  one double colon  sequence to replace  the
            largest acceptable range of  consecutive zeroes. The total  number
            of decoded bits must exactly be 128.

            Otherwise, any string can  be accepted for  the client IP and  get
            sent.

            It replaces --haproxy-protocol  if used,  it is  not necessary  to
            specify both flags.

            If --haproxy-clientip  is provided  several  times, the  last  set
            value is used.

            Example:
             curl --haproxy-clientip $IP

            See also --proxy. Added in 8.2.0.

    --haproxy-protocol
            (HTTP) Send a HAProxy  PROXY protocol v1  header at the  beginning
            of the  connection.  This  is  used by  some  load  balancers  and
            reverse proxies  to  indicate the  client's  true IP  address  and
            port.

            This option is primarily  useful when sending  test requests to  a
            service that expects this header.

            Providing --haproxy-protocol multiple times  has no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-haproxy-protocol.

            Example:
             curl --haproxy-protocol https://example.com

            See also --proxy. Added in 7.60.0.

    -I, --head
            (HTTP FTP FILE) Fetch the  headers only! HTTP-servers feature  the
            command HEAD which this  uses to get nothing  but the header of  a
            document. When  used on an  FTP or  FILE file,  curl displays  the
            file size and last modification time only.

            Providing --head multiple  times has no  extra effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-head.

            Example:
             curl -I https://example.com

            See also --get, --verbose and --trace-ascii.

    -H, --header <header/@file>
            (HTTP IMAP  SMTP) Extra  header to  include in  information  sent.
            When used  within an  HTTP request,  it is  added  to the  regular
            request headers.

            For an IMAP or SMTP MIME uploaded mail built with  --form options,
            it is  prepended  to  the  resulting  MIME  document,  effectively
            including it  at the mail  global level.  It does  not affect  raw
            uploaded mails (Added in 7.56.0).

            You may  specify any number  of extra  headers. Note  that if  you
            should add a custom  header that has the same  name as one of  the
            internal ones curl would use,  your externally set header is  used
            instead  of the  internal  one.  This  allows  you  to  make  even
            trickier stuff  than  curl  would  normally  do.  You  should  not
            replace internally  set  headers without  knowing  perfectly  well
            what  you are  doing.  Remove  an  internal  header  by  giving  a
            replacement without content  on the  right side of  the colon,  as
            in: -H "Host:". If you  send the custom header with no-value  then
            its header  must  be  terminated  with a  semicolon,  such  as  -H
            "X-Custom-Header;" to send "X-Custom-Header:".

            curl makes sure that each header you add/replace is sent  with the
            proper end-of-line marker, you should thus not add that as  a part
            of the header content:  do not add  newlines or carriage  returns,
            they only  mess things up  for you.  curl passes  on the  verbatim
            string you give it without  any filter or other safe guards.  That
            includes white space and control characters.

            This option can take  an argument in  @filename style, which  then
            adds a header  for each  line in  the input file.  Using @-  makes
            curl read the header file from stdin. Added in 7.55.0.

            Please note that most anti-spam  utilities check the presence  and
            value of  several MIME  mail headers:  these are  "From:",  "To:",
            "Date:" and "Subject:" among others and should be added with  this
            option.

            You need --proxy-header  to send  custom headers  intended for  an
            HTTP proxy. Added in 7.37.0.

            Passing on  a "Transfer-Encoding:  chunked" header  when doing  an
            HTTP request with a request  body, makes curl send the data  using
            chunked encoding.

            WARNING:  headers set  with  this  option  are  set  in  all  HTTP
            requests - even after redirects are followed, like when told  with
            --location. This can lead to the header being sent to  other hosts
            than the original host, so  sensitive headers should be used  with
            caution combined with following redirects.

            --header can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl -H "X-First-Name: Joe" https://example.com
             curl -H "User-Agent: yes-please/2000" https://example.com
             curl -H "Host:" https://example.com
             curl -H @headers.txt https://example.com

            See also --user-agent and --referer.

    -h, --help <category>
            Usage help. This lists  all curl command  line options within  the
            given category.

            If no argument is provided, curl displays only the most  important
            command line arguments.

            For category all, curl displays help for all options.

            If  category  is  specified,  curl  displays  all  available  help
            categories.

            Example:
             curl --help all

            See also --verbose.

    --hostpubmd5 <md5>
            (SFTP SCP) Pass  a string  containing 32  hexadecimal digits.  The
            string should be  the 128 bit  MD5 checksum  of the remote  host's
            public key, curl refuses the  connection with the host unless  the
            checksums match.

            If --hostpubmd5 is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --hostpubmd5 e5c1c49020640a5ab0f2034854c321a8 sftp://example.com/

            See also --hostpubsha256.

    --hostpubsha256 <sha256>
            (SFTP SCP) Pass a string  containing a Base64-encoded SHA256  hash
            of the remote host's public key. Curl refuses the connection  with
            the host unless the hashes match.

            This feature requires libcurl  to be built  with libssh2 and  does
            not work with other SSH backends.

            If --hostpubsha256 is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --hostpubsha256 NDVkMTQxMGQ1ODdmMjQ3MjczYjAyOTY5MmRkMjVmNDQ= sftp://example.com/

            See also --hostpubmd5. Added in 7.80.0.

    --hsts <filename>
            (HTTPS)  This  option  enables  HSTS  for  the  transfer.  If  the
            filename points  to an  existing HSTS  cache file,  that is  used.
            After a completed  transfer, the  cache is saved  to the  filename
            again if it has been modified.

            If curl  is  told  to  use  HTTP:// for  a  transfer  involving  a
            hostname that exists in the  HSTS cache, it upgrades the  transfer
            to use HTTPS. Each  HSTS cache entry  has an individual life  time
            after which the upgrade is no longer performed.

            Specify a ""  filename (zero length)  to avoid loading/saving  and
            make curl just handle HSTS in memory.

            If this option  is used  several times, curl  loads contents  from
            all the files but the last one is used for saving.

            --hsts can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --hsts cache.txt https://example.com

            See also --proto. Added in 7.74.0.

    --http0.9
            (HTTP) Tells curl to be fine with HTTP version 0.9 response.

            HTTP/0.9 is a response without headers and therefore you can  also
            connect with this  to non-HTTP  servers and still  get a  response
            since curl simply transparently downgrades - if allowed.

            HTTP/0.9 is disabled by default (added in 7.66.0)

            Providing --http0.9 multiple  times has no  extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-http0.9.

            Example:
             curl --http0.9 https://example.com

            See also --http1.1, --http2 and --http3. Added in 7.64.0.

    -0, --http1.0
            (HTTP) Tells curl  to use HTTP  version 1.0  instead of using  its
            internally preferred HTTP version.

            Providing --http1.0 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --http1.0 https://example.com

            See  also  --http0.9  and  --http1.1.  This  option  is   mutually
            exclusive to  --http1.1  and --http2  and  --http2-prior-knowledge
            and --http3.

    --http1.1
            (HTTP) Tells curl to use HTTP version 1.1.

            Providing --http1.1 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --http1.1 https://example.com

            See  also  --http1.0  and  --http0.9.  This  option  is   mutually
            exclusive to  --http1.0  and --http2  and  --http2-prior-knowledge
            and --http3.

    --http2-prior-knowledge
            (HTTP) Tells curl to issue its non-TLS HTTP requests using  HTTP/2
            without HTTP/1.1  Upgrade. It  requires prior  knowledge that  the
            server supports  HTTP/2 straight  away.  HTTPS requests  still  do
            HTTP/2 the standard  way with negotiated  protocol version in  the
            TLS handshake.

            Providing --http2-prior-knowledge  multiple  times  has  no  extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-http2-prior-knowledge.

            Example:
             curl --http2-prior-knowledge https://example.com

            See also  --http2  and --http3.  --http2-prior-knowledge  requires
            that the  underlying libcurl  was built  to support  HTTP/2.  This
            option is  mutually  exclusive  to  --http1.1  and  --http1.0  and
            --http2 and --http3.

    --http2
            (HTTP) Tells curl to use HTTP version 2.

            For  HTTPS,  this  means  curl   negotiates  HTTP/2  in  the   TLS
            handshake. curl does this by default.

            For HTTP,  this means  curl  attempts to  upgrade the  request  to
            HTTP/2 using the Upgrade: request header.

            When curl uses  HTTP/2 over HTTPS,  it does  not itself insist  on
            TLS  1.2  or   higher  even  though  that   is  required  by   the
            specification. A  user  can  add  this  version  requirement  with
            --tlsv1.2.

            Providing --http2 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --http2 https://example.com

            See also --http1.1, --http3  and --no-alpn. --http2 requires  that
            the underlying libcurl  was built to  support HTTP/2. This  option
            is   mutually   exclusive   to   --http1.1   and   --http1.0   and
            --http2-prior-knowledge and --http3.

    --http3-only
            (HTTP) Instructs curl to use HTTP/3  to the host in the URL,  with
            no fallback to earlier HTTP versions. HTTP/3 can only be  used for
            HTTPS and not  for HTTP URLs.  For HTTP,  this option triggers  an
            error.

            This option allows  a user to  avoid using  the Alt-Svc method  of
            upgrading to HTTP/3 when  you know that  the target speaks  HTTP/3
            on the given host and port.

            This option  makes  curl  fail  if a  QUIC  connection  cannot  be
            established, it does not  attempt any other  HTTP versions on  its
            own. Use --http3 for similar functionality with a fallback.

            Providing --http3-only multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --http3-only https://example.com

            See also  --http1.1, --http2  and --http3.  --http3-only  requires
            that the  underlying libcurl  was built  to support  HTTP/3.  This
            option is  mutually  exclusive  to  --http1.1  and  --http1.0  and
            --http2 and --http2-prior-knowledge and --http3. Added in 7.88.0.

    --http3
            (HTTP) Tells  curl to  try  HTTP/3 to  the host  in the  URL,  but
            fallback  to  earlier  HTTP  versions  if  the  HTTP/3  connection
            establishment fails. HTTP/3  is only available  for HTTPS and  not
            for HTTP URLs.

            This option allows  a user to  avoid using  the Alt-Svc method  of
            upgrading to HTTP/3 when  you know that  the target speaks  HTTP/3
            on the given host and port.

            When asked to use  HTTP/3, curl issues  a separate attempt to  use
            older  HTTP versions  with  a  slight  delay,  so  if  the  HTTP/3
            transfer fails or  is slow, curl  still tries  to proceed with  an
            older HTTP version.

            Use --http3-only for similar functionality without a fallback.

            Providing --http3 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --http3 https://example.com

            See  also  --http1.1  and  --http2.  --http3  requires  that   the
            underlying libcurl was  built to  support HTTP/3.  This option  is
            mutually exclusive  to --http1.1  and  --http1.0 and  --http2  and
            --http2-prior-knowledge and --http3-only. Added in 7.66.0.

    --ignore-content-length
            (FTP HTTP) For  HTTP, Ignore  the Content-Length  header. This  is
            particularly useful for servers running Apache 1.x, which  reports
            incorrect Content-Length for files larger than 2 gigabytes.

            For FTP, this makes curl skip  the SIZE command to figure out  the
            size before downloading a file.

            This option does  not work for  HTTP if libcurl  was built to  use
            hyper.

            Providing --ignore-content-length  multiple  times  has  no  extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-ignore-content-length.

            Example:
             curl --ignore-content-length https://example.com

            See also --ftp-skip-pasv-ip.

    -i, --include
            (HTTP FTP) Include response headers  in the output. HTTP  response
            headers can include things like server name, cookies, date of  the
            document, HTTP version  and more... With  non-HTTP protocols,  the
            "headers" are other server communication.

            To view the request headers, consider the --verbose option.

            Prior to 7.75.0 curl did not print the headers if --fail  was used
            in combination with this  option and there  was error reported  by
            server.

            Providing --include multiple  times has no  extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-include.

            Example:
             curl -i https://example.com

            See also --verbose.

    -k, --insecure
            (TLS SFTP SCP) By default,  every secure connection curl makes  is
            verified to  be  secure  before the  transfer  takes  place.  This
            option makes curl skip the  verification step and proceed  without
            checking.

            When this  option  is  not  used for  protocols  using  TLS,  curl
            verifies the server's  TLS certificate before  it continues:  that
            the  certificate  contains  the  right  name  which  matches   the
            hostname used in the URL and that the certificate has  been signed
            by a CA  certificate present in  the cert  store. See this  online
            resource for further details: https://curl.se/docs/sslcerts.html

            For SFTP  and SCP,  this option  makes curl  skip the  known_hosts
            verification. known_hosts is a file normally stored in the  user's
            home  directory  in  the   ".ssh"  subdirectory,  which   contains
            hostnames and their public keys.

            WARNING: using this option makes the transfer insecure.

            When curl uses  secure protocols  it trusts  responses and  allows
            for example HSTS  and Alt-Svc  information to be  stored and  used
            subsequently. Using --insecure  can make curl  trust and use  such
            information from malicious servers.

            Providing --insecure multiple times  has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-insecure.

            Example:
             curl --insecure https://example.com

            See also --proxy-insecure, --cacert and --capath.

    --interface <name>
            Perform an operation  using a specified  interface. You can  enter
            interface name,  IP address  or hostname.  An example  could  look
            like:

                curl --interface eth0:1 https://www.example.com/

            On Linux it can be used to specify a VRF, but the binary  needs to
            either have CAP_NET_RAW  or to  be run as  root. More  information
            about                          Linux                          VRF:
            https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/networking/vrf.txt

            If --interface is provided  several times, the  last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --interface eth0 https://example.com

            See also --dns-interface.

    --ipfs-gateway <URL>
            (IPFS) Specify which gateway  to use for  IPFS and IPNS URLs.  Not
            specifying this  instead  makes  curl check  if  the  IPFS_GATEWAY
            environment variable  is  set,  or  if  a  "~/.ipfs/gateway"  file
            holding the gateway URL exists.

            If  you run  a  local  IPFS  node,  this  gateway  is  by  default
            available under "http://localhost:8080". A full example URL  would
            look like:

                curl --ipfs-gateway http://localhost:8080 ipfs://bafybeigagd5nmnn2iys2f3doro7ydrevyr2mzarwidgadawmamiteydbzi

            There  are   many  public   IPFS   gateways.  See   for   example:
            https://ipfs.github.io/public-gateway-checker/

            If you opt to go  for a remote gateway  you need to be aware  that
            you completely  trust the  gateway. This  might be  fine in  local
            gateways that you host yourself. With remote gateways there  could
            potentially be malicious actors returning  you data that does  not
            match the request  you made,  inspect or even  interfere with  the
            request. You may  not notice  this when using  curl. A  mitigation
            could be to go for  a "trustless" gateway. This means you  locally
            verify  that the  data.  Consult  the  docs  page  on  trusted  vs
            trustless:
            https://docs.ipfs.tech/reference/http/gateway/#trusted-vs-trustless

            If --ipfs-gateway is  provided several times,  the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --ipfs-gateway https://example.com ipfs://

            See also --help and --manual. Added in 8.4.0.

    -4, --ipv4
            This option tells curl to  use IPv4 addresses only when  resolving
            hostnames, and not for example try IPv6.

            Providing --ipv4 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --ipv4 https://example.com

            See also --http1.1 and --http2. This option is mutually  exclusive
            to --ipv6.

    -6, --ipv6
            This option tells curl to  use IPv6 addresses only when  resolving
            hostnames, and not for example try IPv4.

            Providing --ipv6 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --ipv6 https://example.com

            See also --http1.1 and --http2. This option is mutually  exclusive
            to --ipv4.

    --json <data>
            (HTTP) Sends  the specified JSON  data in  a POST  request to  the
            HTTP server.  --json works  as  a shortcut  for passing  on  these
            three options:

                --data [arg]
                --header "Content-Type: application/json"
                --header "Accept: application/json"

            There is no verification  that the passed  in data is actual  JSON
            or that the syntax is correct.

            If you start  the data  with the letter  @, the rest  should be  a
            filename to read the data from,  or a single dash (-) if you  want
            curl to read the data from  stdin. Posting data from a file  named
            'foobar' would thus  be done  with --json @foobar  and to  instead
            read the data from stdin, use --json @-.

            If this option is  used more than once  on the same command  line,
            the additional  data  pieces  are  concatenated  to  the  previous
            before sending.

            The headers this option  sets can be  overridden with --header  as
            usual.

            --json can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl --json '{ "drink": "coffe" }' https://example.com
             curl --json '{ "drink":' --json ' "coffe" }' https://example.com
             curl --json @prepared https://example.com
             curl --json @- https://example.com < json.txt

            See also  --data-binary and  --data-raw. This  option is  mutually
            exclusive  to  --form  and  --head  and  --upload-file.  Added  in
            7.82.0.

    -j, --junk-session-cookies
            (HTTP) When curl is told to  read cookies from a given file,  this
            option makes it discard all  "session cookies". This has the  same
            effect as if a  new session is  started. Typical browsers  discard
            session cookies when they are closed down.

            Providing  --junk-session-cookies  multiple  times  has  no  extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-junk-session-cookies.

            Example:
             curl --junk-session-cookies -b cookies.txt https://example.com

            See also --cookie and --cookie-jar.

    --keepalive-time <seconds>
            This option  sets  the time  a  connection needs  to  remain  idle
            before sending keepalive  probes and the  time between  individual
            keepalive probes. It is  currently effective on operating  systems
            offering the  "TCP_KEEPIDLE"  and "TCP_KEEPINTVL"  socket  options
            (meaning Linux, recent AIX, HP-UX and more). Keepalive is used  by
            the TCP stack to detect  broken networks on idle connections.  The
            number of missed keepalive probes before declaring the  connection
            down is OS dependent and is  commonly 9 or 10. This option has  no
            effect if --no-keepalive is used.

            If unspecified, the option defaults to 60 seconds.

            If --keepalive-time is provided several times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --keepalive-time 20 https://example.com

            See also --no-keepalive and --max-time.

    --key-type <type>
            (TLS) Private  key  file  type.  Specify  which  type  your  --key
            provided private key is. DER,  PEM, and ENG are supported. If  not
            specified, PEM is assumed.

            If --key-type is  provided several  times, the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --key-type DER --key here https://example.com

            See also --key.

    --key <key>
            (TLS SSH)  Private  key  filename.  Allows  you  to  provide  your
            private key  in this  separate file.  For SSH,  if not  specified,
            curl tries  the following  candidates in  order:  "~/.ssh/id_rsa",
            "~/.ssh/id_dsa", "./id_rsa", "./id_dsa".

            If curl is built  against OpenSSL library,  and the engine  pkcs11
            is available,  then  a  PKCS#11 URI  (RFC  7512) can  be  used  to
            specify a  private  key located  in  a PKCS#11  device.  A  string
            beginning with "pkcs11:"  is interpreted  as a PKCS#11  URI. If  a
            PKCS#11 URI  is  provided, then  the  --engine option  is  set  as
            "pkcs11" if none was provided and the --key-type option is  set as
            "ENG" if none was provided.

            If curl is built  against Secure Transport  or Schannel then  this
            option is ignored for TLS  protocols (HTTPS, etc). Those  backends
            expect the private key  to be already  present in the keychain  or
            PKCS#12 file containing the certificate.

            If --key is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --cert certificate --key here https://example.com

            See also --key-type and --cert.

    --krb <level>
            (FTP) Enable Kerberos  authentication and use.  The level must  be
            entered and should be one  of 'clear', 'safe', 'confidential',  or
            'private'. Should  you  use a  level that  is  not one  of  these,
            'private' is used.

            If --krb is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --krb clear ftp://example.com/

            See  also  --delegation  and   --ssl.  --krb  requires  that   the
            underlying libcurl was built to support Kerberos.

    --libcurl <file>
            Append this option to any ordinary curl command line, and  you get
            libcurl-using C  source code  written to  the file  that does  the
            equivalent of what your command-line operation does!

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            If --libcurl  is provided  several times,  the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --libcurl client.c https://example.com

            See also --verbose.

    --limit-rate <speed>
            Specify the maximum transfer rate you want curl to use -  for both
            downloads and  uploads.  This feature  is  useful if  you  have  a
            limited pipe  and you would  like your  transfer not  to use  your
            entire bandwidth. To make it slower than it otherwise would be.

            The given speed is  measured in bytes/second,  unless a suffix  is
            appended. Appending 'k'  or 'K'  counts the  number as  kilobytes,
            'm'  or 'M'  makes  it  megabytes,  while  'g'  or  'G'  makes  it
            gigabytes. The  suffixes  (k, M,  G, T,  P)  are 1024  based.  For
            example 1k is 1024. Examples: 200K, 3m and 1G.

            The rate limiting logic works  on averaging the transfer speed  to
            no more than the set threshold over a period of multiple seconds.

            If you  also  use  the --speed-limit  option,  that  option  takes
            precedence and might cripple  the rate-limiting slightly, to  help
            keeping the speed-limit logic working.

            If --limit-rate is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl --limit-rate 100K https://example.com
             curl --limit-rate 1000 https://example.com
             curl --limit-rate 10M https://example.com

            See also --rate, --speed-limit and --speed-time.

    -l, --list-only
            (FTP POP3 SFTP) (FTP) When  listing an FTP directory, this  switch
            forces a name-only  view. This  is especially useful  if the  user
            wants to machine-parse the contents of an FTP directory since  the
            normal directory  view does  not use  a standard  look or  format.
            When used like this, the option causes an NLST command to  be sent
            to the server instead of LIST.

            Note: Some FTP servers list only files in their response  to NLST;
            they do not include sub-directories and symbolic links.

            (SFTP) When  listing  an  SFTP directory,  this  switch  forces  a
            name-only view, one  per line.  This is especially  useful if  the
            user wants  to machine-parse  the contents  of an  SFTP  directory
            since the  normal directory  view provides  more information  than
            just filenames.

            (POP3) When retrieving  a specific  email from  POP3, this  switch
            forces a LIST  command to be  performed instead  of RETR. This  is
            particularly useful  if  the  user  wants to  see  if  a  specific
            message-id exists on the server and what size it is.

            Note: When combined  with --request,  this option can  be used  to
            send a  UIDL command  instead, so  the user  may  use the  email's
            unique identifier rather than its message-id to make the request.

            Providing --list-only multiple times has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-list-only.

            Example:
             curl --list-only ftp://example.com/dir/

            See also --quote and --request.

    --local-port <num/range>
            Set a preferred  single number  or range (FROM-TO)  of local  port
            numbers to use for  the connection(s). Note  that port numbers  by
            nature are a scarce  resource so setting  this range to  something
            too narrow might cause unnecessary connection setup failures.

            If --local-port is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --local-port 1000-3000 https://example.com

            See also --globoff.

    --location-trusted
            (HTTP) Like --location, but allows sending the name + password  to
            all hosts  that the  site may  redirect to.  This may  or may  not
            introduce a security breach  if the site  redirects you to a  site
            to which you  send your authentication  info (which is  clear-text
            in the case of HTTP Basic authentication).

            Providing --location-trusted multiple times  has no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-location-trusted.

            Example:
             curl --location-trusted -u user:password https://example.com

            See also --user.

    -L, --location
            (HTTP) If the server reports that the requested page has  moved to
            a different location (indicated with a Location: header and a  3XX
            response code), this  option makes  curl redo the  request on  the
            new place.  If used  together with  --include or  --head,  headers
            from all requested pages are shown.

            When authentication is  used, curl only  sends its credentials  to
            the initial host. If  a redirect takes  curl to a different  host,
            it  does   not   get  the   user+password   pass  on.   See   also
            --location-trusted on how to change this.

            Limit the amount of redirects to follow by using the  --max-redirs
            option.

            When curl follows  a redirect  and if  the request is  a POST,  it
            sends the following request  with a GET  if the HTTP response  was
            301, 302, or  303. If the  response code was  any other 3xx  code,
            curl resends  the  following  request using  the  same  unmodified
            method.

            You can tell curl to not  change POST requests to GET after a  30x
            response by  using  the  dedicated options  for  that:  --post301,
            --post302 and --post303.

            The method  set with  --request overrides  the method  curl  would
            otherwise select to use.

            Providing --location multiple times  has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-location.

            Example:
             curl -L https://example.com

            See also --resolve and --alt-svc.

    --login-options <options>
            (IMAP LDAP  POP3 SMTP)  Specify the  login options  to use  during
            server authentication.

            You can use  login options  to specify  protocol specific  options
            that may  be used  during authentication.  At present  only  IMAP,
            POP3 and SMTP  support login options.  For more information  about
            login options please  see RFC 2384,  RFC 5092  and the IETF  draft
            https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-earhart-url-smtp-00

            Since 8.2.0, IMAP  supports the login  option "AUTH=+LOGIN".  With
            this option, curl uses the  plain (not SASL) "LOGIN IMAP"  command
            even if the server advertises SASL authentication. Care should  be
            taken in using  this option, as  it sends  your password over  the
            network in  plain text.  This does  not work  if  the IMAP  server
            disables the plain "LOGIN" (e.g. to prevent password snooping).

            If --login-options is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --login-options 'AUTH=*' imap://example.com

            See also --user.

    --mail-auth <address>
            (SMTP) Specify  a single  address.  This is  used to  specify  the
            authentication address (identity) of  a submitted message that  is
            being relayed to another server.

            If --mail-auth is provided  several times, the  last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --mail-auth user@example.come -T mail smtp://example.com/

            See also --mail-rcpt and --mail-from.

    --mail-from <address>
            (SMTP) Specify a  single address  that the given  mail should  get
            sent from.

            If --mail-from is provided  several times, the  last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --mail-from user@example.com -T mail smtp://example.com/

            See also --mail-rcpt and --mail-auth.

    --mail-rcpt-allowfails
            (SMTP) When sending data to  multiple recipients, by default  curl
            aborts SMTP conversation if at least one of the recipients  causes
            RCPT TO command to return an error.

            The   default    behavior    can    be    changed    by    passing
            --mail-rcpt-allowfails  command-line  option   which  makes   curl
            ignore errors and proceed with the remaining valid recipients.

            If all  recipients  trigger RCPT  TO  failures and  this  flag  is
            specified, curl  still aborts  the SMTP  conversation and  returns
            the error received from to the last RCPT TO command.

            Providing  --mail-rcpt-allowfails  multiple  times  has  no  extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-mail-rcpt-allowfails.

            Example:
             curl --mail-rcpt-allowfails --mail-rcpt dest@example.com smtp://example.com

            See also --mail-rcpt. Added in 7.69.0.

    --mail-rcpt <address>
            (SMTP) Specify a  single email address,  username or mailing  list
            name. Repeat  this  option  several  times  to  send  to  multiple
            recipients.

            When  performing  an  address  verification  (VRFY  command),  the
            recipient should  be specified  as the  username or  username  and
            domain (as per Section 3.5 of RFC 5321).

            When  performing  a  mailing  list  expand  (EXPN  command),   the
            recipient should be  specified using the  mailing list name,  such
            as "Friends" or "London-Office".

            --mail-rcpt can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --mail-rcpt user@example.net smtp://example.com

            See also --mail-rcpt-allowfails.

    -M, --manual
            Manual. Display the huge help text.

            Example:
             curl --manual

            See also --verbose, --libcurl and --trace.

    --max-filesize <bytes>
            (FTP HTTP MQTT) Specify the maximum  size (in bytes) of a file  to
            download. If the  file requested  is larger than  this value,  the
            transfer does not start and curl returns with exit code 63.

            A size modifier  may be used.  For example,  Appending 'k' or  'K'
            counts the number  as kilobytes,  'm' or 'M'  makes it  megabytes,
            while 'g' or 'G'  makes it gigabytes.  Examples: 200K, 3m and  1G.
            (Added in 7.58.0)

            NOTE: before curl 8.4.0, when the file size is not known  prior to
            download, for such  files this option  has no  effect even if  the
            file transfer ends up being larger than this given limit.

            Starting with curl 8.4.0,  this option aborts  the transfer if  it
            reaches the threshold during transfer.

            If --max-filesize is  provided several times,  the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --max-filesize 100K https://example.com

            See also --limit-rate.

    --max-redirs <num>
            (HTTP)  Set  maximum  number  of  redirections  to  follow.   When
            --location is  used,  to  prevent curl  from  following  too  many
            redirects, by default, the limit is set to 50 redirects.  Set this
            option to -1 to make it unlimited.

            If --max-redirs is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --max-redirs 3 --location https://example.com

            See also --location.

    -m, --max-time <fractional seconds>
            Maximum time  in seconds  that you  allow each  transfer to  take.
            This is useful  for preventing  your batch jobs  from hanging  for
            hours due  to  slow networks  or  links going  down.  This  option
            accepts decimal values.

            If you enable  retrying the  transfer (--retry)  then the  maximum
            time counter is reset each  time the transfer is retried. You  can
            use --retry-max-time to limit the retry time.

            The decimal value  needs to provided  using a  dot (.) as  decimal
            separator -  not  the local  version even  if  it might  be  using
            another separator.

            If --max-time is  provided several  times, the last  set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl --max-time 10 https://example.com
             curl --max-time 2.92 https://example.com

            See also --connect-timeout and --retry-max-time.

    --metalink
            This option was  previously used to  specify a Metalink  resource.
            Metalink support is disabled in  curl for security reasons  (added
            in 7.78.0).

            If --metalink is  provided several  times, the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --metalink file https://example.com

            See also --parallel.

    --negotiate
            (HTTP) Enables Negotiate (SPNEGO) authentication.

            This  option  requires  a  library  built  with  GSS-API  or  SSPI
            support. Use --version to see  if your curl supports  GSS-API/SSPI
            or SPNEGO.

            When using  this  option, you  must  also provide  a  fake  --user
            option to  activate the  authentication code  properly. Sending  a
            '-u :'  is enough as  the username  and password  from the  --user
            option are not actually used.

            Providing --negotiate multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --negotiate -u : https://example.com

            See also --basic, --ntlm, --anyauth and --proxy-negotiate.

    --netrc-file <filename>
            This option is  similar to  --netrc, except that  you provide  the
            path (absolute or  relative) to  the netrc file  that curl  should
            use. You can only specify one netrc file per invocation.

            It abides by --netrc-optional if specified.

            If --netrc-file is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --netrc-file netrc https://example.com

            See also --netrc,  --user and  --config. This  option is  mutually
            exclusive to --netrc.

    --netrc-optional
            Similar to  --netrc,  but  this  option  makes  the  .netrc  usage
            optional and not mandatory as the --netrc option does.

            Providing --netrc-optional  multiple times  has no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-netrc-optional.

            Example:
             curl --netrc-optional https://example.com

            See also  --netrc-file.  This  option  is  mutually  exclusive  to
            --netrc.

    -n, --netrc
            Makes curl scan the .netrc  file in the user's home directory  for
            login name and password. This  is typically used for FTP on  Unix.
            If used with HTTP, curl enables user authentication. See  netrc(5)
            and ftp(1) for details on the file format. Curl does  not complain
            if that file  does not have  the right  permissions (it should  be
            neither  world-  nor  group-readable).  The  environment  variable
            "HOME" is used to find the home directory.

            On Windows  two  filenames  in the  home  directory  are  checked:
            .netrc and  _netrc,  preferring  the  former.  Older  versions  on
            Windows checked for _netrc only.

            A quick and simple example of how to setup a .netrc to  allow curl
            to FTP to the machine  host.domain.com with username 'myself'  and
            password 'secret' could look similar to:

                machine host.domain.com
                login myself
                password secret
            Providing --netrc multiple times has  no extra effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-netrc.

            Example:
             curl --netrc https://example.com

            See  also  --netrc-file,  --config  and  --user.  This  option  is
            mutually exclusive to --netrc-file and --netrc-optional.

    -:, --next
            Tells curl to use a  separate operation for the following URL  and
            associated options. This allows you to send several URL  requests,
            each with  their  own  specific  options,  for  example,  such  as
            different usernames or custom requests for each.

            --next resets all local  options and only  global ones have  their
            values  survive  over  to  the  operation  following  the   --next
            instruction.   Global   options   include   --verbose,    --trace,
            --trace-ascii and --fail-early.

            For example, you can do both a GET and a POST in a  single command
            line:

                curl www1.example.com --next -d postthis www2.example.com
            --next can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl https://example.com --next -d postthis www2.example.com
             curl -I https://example.com --next https://example.net/

            See also --parallel and --config.

    --no-alpn
            (HTTPS) Disable  the  ALPN  TLS  extension.  ALPN  is  enabled  by
            default if libcurl  was built  with an SSL  library that  supports
            ALPN. ALPN is used by a libcurl that supports HTTP/2  to negotiate
            HTTP/2 support with the server during https sessions.

            Note that this is the negated option name documented. You  can use
            --alpn to enable ALPN.

            Providing --no-alpn multiple  times has no  extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --alpn.

            Example:
             curl --no-alpn https://example.com

            See  also  --no-npn  and  --http2.  --no-alpn  requires  that  the
            underlying libcurl was built to support TLS.

    -N, --no-buffer
            Disables the  buffering  of  the output  stream.  In  normal  work
            situations, curl uses a standard  buffered output stream that  has
            the effect that  it outputs  the data in  chunks, not  necessarily
            exactly when the  data arrives.  Using this  option disables  that
            buffering.

            Note that this is the negated option name documented. You  can use
            --buffer to enable buffering again.

            Providing --no-buffer multiple times has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --buffer.

            Example:
             curl --no-buffer https://example.com

            See also --progress-bar.

    --no-clobber
            When used in conjunction with the --output,  --remote-header-name,
            --remote-name,   or   --remote-name-all   options,   curl   avoids
            overwriting files that already exist. Instead, a dot and a  number
            gets appended to the  name of the file  that would be created,  up
            to filename.100 after which it does not create any file.

            Note that  this is  the negated  option name  documented. You  can
            thus  use   --clobber  to   enforce   the  clobbering,   even   if
            --remote-header-name is specified.

            Providing  --no-clobber  multiple  times  has  no  extra   effect.
            Disable it again with --clobber.

            Example:
             curl --no-clobber --output local/dir/file https://example.com

            See also --output and --remote-name. Added in 7.83.0.

    --no-keepalive
            Disables the  use of  keepalive messages  on the  TCP  connection.
            curl otherwise enables them by default.

            Note that  this is  the negated  option name  documented. You  can
            thus use --keepalive to enforce keepalive.

            Providing --no-keepalive  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --keepalive.

            Example:
             curl --no-keepalive https://example.com

            See also --keepalive-time.

    --no-npn
            (HTTPS) curl never uses NPN,  this option has no effect (added  in
            7.86.0).

            Disable the  NPN  TLS extension.  NPN  is enabled  by  default  if
            libcurl was built with  an SSL library  that supports NPN. NPN  is
            used by  a  libcurl  that  supports  HTTP/2  to  negotiate  HTTP/2
            support with the server during https sessions.

            Providing --no-npn multiple times has no extra effect. Disable  it
            again with --npn.

            Example:
             curl --no-npn https://example.com

            See  also  --no-alpn  and  --http2.  --no-npn  requires  that  the
            underlying libcurl was built to support TLS.

    --no-progress-meter
            Option to switch off the  progress meter output without muting  or
            otherwise  affecting  warning  and  informational  messages   like
            --silent does.

            Note that  this is  the negated  option name  documented. You  can
            thus use --progress-meter to enable the progress meter again.

            Providing --no-progress-meter multiple times has no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --progress-meter.

            Example:
             curl --no-progress-meter -o store https://example.com

            See also --verbose and --silent. Added in 7.67.0.

    --no-sessionid
            (TLS) Disable curl's  use of  SSL session-ID  caching. By  default
            all transfers are done  using the cache.  Note that while  nothing
            should ever  get  hurt by  attempting  to reuse  SSL  session-IDs,
            there seem to be broken  SSL implementations in the wild that  may
            require you to disable this in order for you to succeed.

            Note that  this is  the negated  option name  documented. You  can
            thus use --sessionid to enforce session-ID caching.

            Providing --no-sessionid  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --sessionid.

            Example:
             curl --no-sessionid https://example.com

            See also --insecure.

    --noproxy <no-proxy-list>
            Comma-separated list of  hosts for which  not to  use a proxy,  if
            one is specified.  The only  wildcard is a  single "*"  character,
            which matches all hosts, and effectively disables the proxy.  Each
            name in this  list is matched  as either  a domain which  contains
            the hostname,  or the  hostname itself.  For example,  "local.com"
            would match "local.com", "local.com:80", and "www.local.com",  but
            not "www.notlocal.com".

            This option overrides the  environment variables that disable  the
            proxy ("no_proxy" and "NO_PROXY") (added  in 7.53.0). If there  is
            an environment  variable disabling  a proxy,  you can  set the  no
            proxy list to "" to override it.

            IP addresses specified to this  option can be provided using  CIDR
            notation  (added  in  7.86.0):   an  appended  slash  and   number
            specifies the number of network bits out of the address to  use in
            the comparison.  For  example  "192.168.0.0/16"  would  match  all
            addresses starting with "192.168".

            If --noproxy  is provided  several times,  the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --noproxy "www.example" https://example.com

            See also --proxy.

    --ntlm-wb
            (HTTP) Enables NTLM much in  the style --ntlm does, but hand  over
            the authentication to the  separate binary "ntlmauth"  application
            that is executed when needed.

            Providing --ntlm-wb multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --ntlm-wb -u user:password https://example.com

            See also --ntlm and --proxy-ntlm.

    --ntlm
            (HTTP)  Enables  NTLM  authentication.  The  NTLM   authentication
            method was designed by Microsoft  and is used by IIS web  servers.
            It is a proprietary protocol, reverse-engineered by clever  people
            and implemented  in curl  based  on their  efforts. This  kind  of
            behavior should  not be  endorsed, you  should encourage  everyone
            who uses NTLM to switch to a public and documented  authentication
            method instead, such as Digest.

            If you want  to enable  NTLM for your  proxy authentication,  then
            use --proxy-ntlm.

            Providing --ntlm multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --ntlm -u user:password https://example.com

            See  also  --proxy-ntlm.  --ntlm  requires  that  the   underlying
            libcurl  was  built  to  support  TLS.  This  option  is  mutually
            exclusive to --basic and --negotiate and --digest and --anyauth.

    --oauth2-bearer <token>
            (IMAP LDAP POP3 SMTP HTTP) Specify the Bearer Token for  OAUTH 2.0
            server authentication.  The Bearer  Token is  used in  conjunction
            with the username which can be  specified as part of the --url  or
            --user options.

            The Bearer  Token  and username  are  formatted according  to  RFC
            6750.

            If --oauth2-bearer is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --oauth2-bearer "mF_9.B5f-4.1JqM" https://example.com

            See also --basic, --ntlm and --digest.

    --output-dir <dir>
            This option  specifies  the directory  in  which files  should  be
            stored, when --remote-name or --output are used.

            The given  output  directory  is  used for  all  URLs  and  output
            options on the command line, up until the first --next.

            If the specified  target directory does  not exist, the  operation
            fails unless --create-dirs is also used.

            If --output-dir is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --output-dir "tmp" -O https://example.com

            See also --remote-name and --remote-header-name. Added in 7.73.0.

    -o, --output <file>
            Write output  to the  given file  instead of  stdout.  If you  are
            using globbing to fetch multiple  documents, you should quote  the
            URL and you  can use  "#" followed  by a number  in the  filename.
            That variable is  then replaced  with the current  string for  the
            URL being fetched. Like in:

                curl "http://{one,two}.example.com" -o "file_#1.txt"

            or use several variables like:

                curl "http://{site,host}.host[1-5].example" -o "#1_#2"

            You may use this  option as many times as  the number of URLs  you
            have. For example,  if you specify  two URLs  on the same  command
            line, you can use it like this:

                curl -o aa example.com -o bb example.net

            and the order  of the  -o options  and the URLs  does not  matter,
            just that the  first -o is  for the first  URL and  so on, so  the
            above command line can also be written as

                curl example.com example.net -o aa -o bb

            See also the --create-dirs option to create the local  directories
            dynamically. Specifying the output as  '-' (a single dash)  passes
            the output to stdout.

            To  suppress  response   bodies,  you  can   redirect  output   to
            /dev/null:

                curl example.com -o /dev/null

            Or for Windows:

                curl example.com -o nul
            --output can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl -o file https://example.com
             curl "http://{one,two}.example.com" -o "file_#1.txt"
             curl "http://{site,host}.host[1-5].example" -o "#1_#2"
             curl -o file https://example.com -o file2 https://example.net

            See      also      --remote-name,      --remote-name-all       and
            --remote-header-name.

    --parallel-immediate
            When doing parallel transfers, this option instructs curl that  it
            should rather prefer  opening up more  connections in parallel  at
            once rather than waiting to see  if new transfers can be added  as
            multiplexed streams on another connection.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            Providing  --parallel-immediate  multiple   times  has  no   extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-parallel-immediate.

            Example:
             curl --parallel-immediate -Z https://example.com -o file1 https://example.com -o file2

            See also --parallel and --parallel-max. Added in 7.68.0.

    --parallel-max <num>
            When asked  to  do  parallel  transfers,  using  --parallel,  this
            option  controls   the  maximum   amount   of  transfers   to   do
            simultaneously.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            The default is 50.

            If --parallel-max is  provided several times,  the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --parallel-max 100 -Z https://example.com ftp://example.com/

            See also --parallel. Added in 7.66.0.

    -Z, --parallel
            Makes curl perform its  transfers in parallel  as compared to  the
            regular serial manner.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            Providing --parallel multiple times  has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-parallel.

            Example:
             curl --parallel https://example.com -o file1 https://example.com -o file2

            See also --next and --verbose. Added in 7.66.0.

    --pass <phrase>
            (SSH TLS) Passphrase for the private key.

            If --pass is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --pass secret --key file https://example.com

            See also --key and --user.

    --path-as-is
            Tell curl to not handle sequences of /../ or /./ in the  given URL
            path.  Normally  curl  squashes   or  merges  them  according   to
            standards but with this option set you tell it not to do that.

            Providing  --path-as-is  multiple  times  has  no  extra   effect.
            Disable it again with --no-path-as-is.

            Example:
             curl --path-as-is https://example.com/../../etc/passwd

            See also --request-target.

    --pinnedpubkey <hashes>
            (TLS) Tells curl to use the specified public key file  (or hashes)
            to verify the peer. This can be a path to a file which  contains a
            single public key in  PEM or DER format,  or any number of  base64
            encoded sha256  hashes preceded  by  'sha256//' and  separated  by
            ';'.

            When negotiating  a TLS  or  SSL connection,  the server  sends  a
            certificate indicating  its identity.  A public  key is  extracted
            from this certificate and if it does not exactly match  the public
            key provided to  this option,  curl aborts  the connection  before
            sending or receiving any data.

            This option is independent of  option --insecure. If you use  both
            options together then the peer is still verified by public key.

            PEM/DER support:

            OpenSSL and GnuTLS,  wolfSSL (added in  7.43.0), mbedTLS ,  Secure
            Transport macOS 10.7+/iOS 10+ (7.54.1), Schannel (7.58.1)

            sha256 support:

            OpenSSL, GnuTLS  and wolfSSL,  mbedTLS (added  in 7.47.0),  Secure
            Transport macOS 10.7+/iOS 10+ (7.54.1), Schannel (7.58.1)

            Other SSL backends not supported.

            If --pinnedpubkey is  provided several times,  the last set  value
            is used.

            Examples:
             curl --pinnedpubkey keyfile https://example.com
             curl --pinnedpubkey 'sha256//ce118b51897f4452dc' https://example.com

            See also --hostpubsha256.

    --post301
            (HTTP) Tells curl to respect  RFC 7231/6.4.2 and not convert  POST
            requests into GET requests when  following a 301 redirection.  The
            non-RFC behavior is ubiquitous in  web browsers, so curl does  the
            conversion by default to  maintain consistency. However, a  server
            may require  a POST to  remain a  POST after  such a  redirection.
            This option is meaningful only when using --location.

            Providing --post301 multiple  times has no  extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-post301.

            Example:
             curl --post301 --location -d "data" https://example.com

            See also --post302, --post303 and --location.

    --post302
            (HTTP) Tells curl to respect  RFC 7231/6.4.3 and not convert  POST
            requests into GET requests when  following a 302 redirection.  The
            non-RFC behavior is ubiquitous in  web browsers, so curl does  the
            conversion by default to  maintain consistency. However, a  server
            may require  a POST to  remain a  POST after  such a  redirection.
            This option is meaningful only when using --location.

            Providing --post302 multiple  times has no  extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-post302.

            Example:
             curl --post302 --location -d "data" https://example.com

            See also --post301, --post303 and --location.

    --post303
            (HTTP) Tells curl to violate  RFC 7231/6.4.4 and not convert  POST
            requests into  GET requests  when  following 303  redirections.  A
            server  may  require  a  POST  to  remain  a  POST  after   a  303
            redirection.  This   option   is  meaningful   only   when   using
            --location.

            Providing --post303 multiple  times has no  extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-post303.

            Example:
             curl --post303 --location -d "data" https://example.com

            See also --post302, --post301 and --location.

    --preproxy [protocol://]host[:port]
            Use the  specified SOCKS  proxy before  connecting to  an HTTP  or
            HTTPS --proxy. In  such a case  curl first  connects to the  SOCKS
            proxy and  then connects  (through  SOCKS) to  the HTTP  or  HTTPS
            proxy. Hence pre proxy.

            The pre  proxy  string  should be  specified  with  a  protocol://
            prefix to  specify  alternative proxy  protocols.  Use  socks4://,
            socks4a://, socks5:// or socks5h:// to request the specific  SOCKS
            version to be used.  No protocol specified  makes curl default  to
            SOCKS4.

            If the port  number is not  specified in the  proxy string, it  is
            assumed to be 1080.

            User and password that might  be provided in the proxy string  are
            URL  decoded  by  curl.  This  allows  you  to  pass   in  special
            characters such as @ by using %40 or pass in a colon with %3a.

            If --preproxy is  provided several  times, the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --preproxy socks5://proxy.example -x http://http.example https://example.com

            See also --proxy and --socks5. Added in 7.52.0.

    -#, --progress-bar
            Make curl  display  transfer progress  as  a simple  progress  bar
            instead of the standard, more informational, meter.

            This progress bar  draws a  single line of  '#' characters  across
            the screen and shows a  percentage if the transfer size is  known.
            For transfers without a known size, there is a space  ship (-=o=-)
            that  moves  back  and  forth   but  only  while  data  is   being
            transferred, with a set of flying hash sign symbols on top.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            Providing --progress-bar  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-progress-bar.

            Example:
             curl -# -O https://example.com

            See also --styled-output.

    --proto-default <protocol>
            Tells curl to use protocol for any URL missing a scheme name.

            An    unknown    or    unsupported    protocol    causes     error
            CURLE_UNSUPPORTED_PROTOCOL (1).

            This option does not change the default proxy protocol (http).

            Without this  option  set,  curl guesses  protocol  based  on  the
            hostname, see --url for details.

            If --proto-default is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --proto-default https ftp.example.com

            See also --proto and --proto-redir.

    --proto-redir <protocols>
            Tells curl  to  limit  what  protocols it  may  use  on  redirect.
            Protocols denied by  --proto are  not overridden  by this  option.
            See --proto for how protocols are represented.

            Example, allow only HTTP and HTTPS on redirect:

                curl --proto-redir -all,http,https http://example.com

            By  default  curl  only  allows  HTTP,  HTTPS,  FTP  and  FTPS  on
            redirects (added in  7.65.2). Specifying all  or +all enables  all
            protocols on redirects, which is not good for security.

            If --proto-redir is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --proto-redir =http,https https://example.com

            See also --proto.

    --proto <protocols>
            Tells curl  to limit  what  protocols it  may use  for  transfers.
            Protocols are evaluated  left to right,  are comma separated,  and
            are each a protocol name or 'all', optionally prefixed by  zero or
            more modifiers. Available modifiers are:

            +

                Permit  this  protocol  in   addition  to  protocols   already
                permitted (this is the default if no modifier is used).

            -

                Deny this protocol,  removing it  from the  list of  protocols
                already permitted.

            =

                Permit  only  this   protocol  (ignoring   the  list   already
                permitted),  though   subject   to   later   modification   by
                subsequent entries in the comma separated list.

        .RE .IP

                For example:  --proto -ftps  uses the  default protocols,  but
                disables ftps

                --proto -all,https,+http only enables http and https

                --proto =http,https also only enables http and https

                Unknown and disabled protocols produce a warning. This  allows
                scripts to safely  rely on being  able to disable  potentially
                dangerous protocols,  without relying  upon support  for  that
                protocol being built into curl to avoid an error.

                This option  can be  used multiple  times, in  which case  the
                effect is the  same as  concatenating the  protocols into  one
                instance of the option.

            If --proto is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --proto =http,https,sftp https://example.com

            See also --proto-redir and --proto-default.

    --proxy-anyauth
            Tells  curl  to  pick   a  suitable  authentication  method   when
            communicating with  the  given HTTP  proxy.  This might  cause  an
            extra request/response round-trip.

            Providing --proxy-anyauth multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-anyauth --proxy-user user:passwd -x proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy, --proxy-basic and --proxy-digest.

    --proxy-basic
            Tells curl  to use  HTTP Basic  authentication when  communicating
            with the given proxy. Use  --basic for enabling HTTP Basic with  a
            remote host. Basic is the default authentication method curl  uses
            with proxies.

            Providing --proxy-basic multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-basic --proxy-user user:passwd -x proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy, --proxy-anyauth and --proxy-digest.

    --proxy-ca-native
            (TLS) Tells curl  to use the  CA store  from the native  operating
            system to  verify the  HTTPS proxy.  By default,  curl  uses a  CA
            store provided in a single file or directory, but when  using this
            option it interfaces the operating system's own vault.

            This option works for curl  on Windows when built to use  OpenSSL,
            wolfSSL (added in 8.3.0) or GnuTLS (added in 8.5.0). When  curl on
            Windows is  built to  use Schannel,  this feature  is implied  and
            curl then only uses the native CA store.

            Providing --proxy-ca-native multiple  times has  no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-proxy-ca-native.

            Example:
             curl --ca-native https://example.com

            See also --cacert, --capath and --insecure. Added in 8.2.0.

    --proxy-cacert <file>
            Same as --cacert but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-cacert is  provided several times,  the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-cacert CA-file.txt -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy-capath, --cacert, --capath and --proxy. Added  in
            7.52.0.

    --proxy-capath <dir>
            Same as --capath but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-capath is  provided several times,  the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-capath /local/directory -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy-cacert, --proxy and --capath. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-cert-type <type>
            Same as --cert-type but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-cert-type  is  provided  several times,  the  last  set
            value is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-cert-type PEM --proxy-cert file -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy-cert. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-cert <cert[:passwd]>
            Same as --cert but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-cert is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-cert file -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy-cert-type. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-ciphers <list>
            Same as --ciphers but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            Specifies which  ciphers to  use in  the connection  to the  HTTPS
            proxy. The list of ciphers must specify valid ciphers. Read  up on
            SSL cipher list details on this URL:

            https://curl.se/docs/ssl-ciphers.html

            If --proxy-ciphers is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-ciphers ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-CCM8 -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --ciphers, --curves and --proxy. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-crlfile <file>
            Same as --crlfile but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-crlfile is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-crlfile rejects.txt -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --crlfile and --proxy. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-digest
            Tells curl to  use HTTP Digest  authentication when  communicating
            with the given proxy. Use  --digest for enabling HTTP Digest  with
            a remote host.

            Providing --proxy-digest multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-digest --proxy-user user:passwd -x proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy, --proxy-anyauth and --proxy-basic.

    --proxy-header <header/@file>
            (HTTP) Extra header to  include in the  request when sending  HTTP
            to a proxy. You may specify  any number of extra headers. This  is
            the equivalent option to --header  but is for proxy  communication
            only like  in CONNECT  requests when  you want  a separate  header
            sent to the proxy to what is sent to the actual remote host.

            curl makes sure that each header you add/replace is sent  with the
            proper end-of-line marker, you should thus not add that as  a part
            of the header content:  do not add  newlines or carriage  returns,
            they only mess things up for you.

            Headers specified with  this option are  not included in  requests
            that curl knows are not be sent to a proxy.

            This option can take  an argument in  @filename style, which  then
            adds a header for each line  in the input file (added in  7.55.0).
            Using @- makes curl read the headers from stdin.

            This option  can  be  used multiple  times  to  add/replace/remove
            multiple headers.

            --proxy-header can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl --proxy-header "X-First-Name: Joe" -x http://proxy https://example.com
             curl --proxy-header "User-Agent: surprise" -x http://proxy https://example.com
             curl --proxy-header "Host:" -x http://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy.

    --proxy-http2
            (HTTP) Tells curl to  try negotiate HTTP  version 2 with an  HTTPS
            proxy. The  proxy might  still  only offer  HTTP/1 and  then  curl
            sticks to using that version.

            This has no effect for any other kinds of proxies.

            Providing  --proxy-http2  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-proxy-http2.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-http2 -x proxy https://example.com

            See also  --proxy.  --proxy-http2  requires  that  the  underlying
            libcurl was built to support HTTP/2. Added in 8.1.0.

    --proxy-insecure
            Same as --insecure but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            Providing --proxy-insecure  multiple times  has no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-proxy-insecure.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-insecure -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy and --insecure. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-key-type <type>
            Same as --key-type but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-key-type is provided several times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-key-type DER --proxy-key here -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy-key and --proxy. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-key <key>
            Same as --key but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-key is provided  several times, the  last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-key here -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy-key-type and --proxy. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-negotiate
            Tells curl  to use  HTTP  Negotiate (SPNEGO)  authentication  when
            communicating with the given  proxy. Use --negotiate for  enabling
            HTTP Negotiate (SPNEGO) with a remote host.

            Providing --proxy-negotiate multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-negotiate --proxy-user user:passwd -x proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy-anyauth and --proxy-basic.

    --proxy-ntlm
            Tells curl  to use  HTTP  NTLM authentication  when  communicating
            with the given proxy. Use  --ntlm for enabling NTLM with a  remote
            host.

            Providing --proxy-ntlm multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-ntlm --proxy-user user:passwd -x http://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy-negotiate and --proxy-anyauth.

    --proxy-pass <phrase>
            Same as --pass but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-pass is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-pass secret --proxy-key here -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy and --proxy-key. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-pinnedpubkey <hashes>
            (TLS) Tells curl to use the specified public key file  (or hashes)
            to verify the proxy. This can  be a path to a file which  contains
            a single public key in PEM or DER format, or any number  of base64
            encoded sha256  hashes preceded  by  'sha256//' and  separated  by
            ';'.

            When negotiating  a TLS  or  SSL connection,  the server  sends  a
            certificate indicating  its identity.  A public  key is  extracted
            from this certificate and if it does not exactly match  the public
            key provided to  this option,  curl aborts  the connection  before
            sending or receiving any data.

            If --proxy-pinnedpubkey is  provided several times,  the last  set
            value is used.

            Examples:
             curl --proxy-pinnedpubkey keyfile https://example.com
             curl --proxy-pinnedpubkey 'sha256//ce118b51897f4452dc' https://example.com

            See also --pinnedpubkey and --proxy. Added in 7.59.0.

    --proxy-service-name <name>
            This option  allows  you to  change  the service  name  for  proxy
            negotiation.

            If --proxy-service-name is  provided several times,  the last  set
            value is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-service-name "shrubbery" -x proxy https://example.com

            See also --service-name and --proxy.

    --proxy-ssl-allow-beast
            Same as --ssl-allow-beast but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            Providing --proxy-ssl-allow-beast  multiple  times  has  no  extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-proxy-ssl-allow-beast.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-ssl-allow-beast -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --ssl-allow-beast and --proxy. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-ssl-auto-client-cert
            Same as --ssl-auto-client-cert but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            Providing  --proxy-ssl-auto-client-cert  multiple  times  has   no
            extra       effect.       Disable       it       again        with
            --no-proxy-ssl-auto-client-cert.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-ssl-auto-client-cert -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --ssl-auto-client-cert and --proxy. Added in 7.77.0.

    --proxy-tls13-ciphers <ciphersuite list>
            (TLS) Specifies which cipher  suites to use  in the connection  to
            your HTTPS proxy when it  negotiates TLS 1.3. The list of  ciphers
            suites must  specify valid  ciphers.  Read up  on TLS  1.3  cipher
            suite details on this URL:

            https://curl.se/docs/ssl-ciphers.html

            This option  is currently  used only  when curl  is  built to  use
            OpenSSL 1.1.1 or later. If  you are using a different SSL  backend
            you  can  try  setting  TLS   1.3  cipher  suites  by  using   the
            --proxy-ciphers option.

            If --proxy-tls13-ciphers is provided  several times, the last  set
            value is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-tls13-ciphers TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 -x proxy https://example.com

            See also --tls13-ciphers, --curves  and --proxy-ciphers. Added  in
            7.61.0.

    --proxy-tlsauthtype <type>
            Same as --tlsauthtype but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-tlsauthtype  is provided  several times,  the last  set
            value is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-tlsauthtype SRP -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy and --proxy-tlsuser. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-tlspassword <string>
            Same as --tlspassword but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-tlspassword  is provided  several times,  the last  set
            value is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-tlspassword passwd -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy and --proxy-tlsuser. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-tlsuser <name>
            Same as --tlsuser but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            If --proxy-tlsuser is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-tlsuser smith -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy and --proxy-tlspassword. Added in 7.52.0.

    --proxy-tlsv1
            Same as --tlsv1 but used in HTTPS proxy context.

            Providing --proxy-tlsv1 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-tlsv1 -x https://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy. Added in 7.52.0.

    -U, --proxy-user <user:password>
            Specify   the   username   and   password   to   use   for   proxy
            authentication.

            If you  use  a Windows  SSPI-enabled  curl binary  and  do  either
            Negotiate or NTLM authentication then you can tell curl to  select
            the username and  password from your  environment by specifying  a
            single colon with this option: "-U :".

            On systems where it  works, curl hides  the given option  argument
            from process listings. This is  not enough to protect  credentials
            from possibly getting seen  by other users  on the same system  as
            they  still  are  visible  for  a  moment  before  cleared.   Such
            sensitive data should be retrieved from a file instead or  similar
            and never used in clear text in a command line.

            If --proxy-user is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy-user smith:secret -x proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy-pass.

    -x, --proxy [protocol://]host[:port]
            Use the specified proxy.

            The proxy string can  be specified with  a protocol:// prefix.  No
            protocol specified or http:// it is treated as an HTTP  proxy. Use
            socks4://,  socks4a://,  socks5://  or  socks5h://  to  request  a
            specific SOCKS version to be used.

            Unix domain sockets are supported  for socks proxy. Set  localhost
            for the host part. e.g. socks5h://localhost/path/to/socket.sock

            HTTPS proxy support  works set with  the https:// protocol  prefix
            for OpenSSL  and  GnuTLS (added  in  7.52.0). It  also  works  for
            BearSSL, mbedTLS, rustls, Schannel,  Secure Transport and  wolfSSL
            (added in 7.87.0).

            Unrecognized  and  unsupported  proxy  protocols  cause  an  error
            (added in 7.52.0). Ancient  curl versions ignored unknown  schemes
            and used http:// instead.

            If the port  number is not  specified in the  proxy string, it  is
            assumed to be 1080.

            This option overrides existing environment variables that set  the
            proxy to  use.  If there  is  an environment  variable  setting  a
            proxy, you can set proxy to "" to override it.

            All  operations  that  are  performed  over  an  HTTP  proxy   are
            transparently converted to  HTTP. It means  that certain  protocol
            specific operations might not be  available. This is not the  case
            if  you  can   tunnel  through   the  proxy,  as   one  with   the
            --proxytunnel option.

            User and password that might  be provided in the proxy string  are
            URL  decoded  by  curl.  This  allows  you  to  pass   in  special
            characters such as @ by using %40 or pass in a colon with %3a.

            The proxy  host  can  be  specified  the same  way  as  the  proxy
            environment variables,  including  the protocol  prefix  (http://)
            and the embedded user + password.

            When a proxy is used, the active FTP mode as set  with --ftp-port,
            cannot be used.

            If --proxy is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --proxy http://proxy.example https://example.com

            See also --socks5 and --proxy-basic.

    --proxy1.0 <host[:port]>
            Use the  specified  HTTP 1.0  proxy. If  the  port number  is  not
            specified, it is assumed at port 1080.

            The only  difference  between  this  and  the  HTTP  proxy  option
            --proxy, is  that  attempts  to  use  CONNECT  through  the  proxy
            specifies an HTTP 1.0 protocol instead of the default HTTP 1.1.

            Providing --proxy1.0 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --proxy1.0 http://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy, --socks5 and --preproxy.

    -p, --proxytunnel
            When an HTTP proxy is used --proxy, this option makes  curl tunnel
            the traffic through the  proxy. The tunnel  approach is made  with
            the HTTP proxy CONNECT request and requires that the proxy  allows
            direct connect  to the  remote port  number curl  wants to  tunnel
            through to.

            To suppress proxy  CONNECT response  headers when curl  is set  to
            output headers use --suppress-connect-headers.

            Providing  --proxytunnel  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-proxytunnel.

            Example:
             curl --proxytunnel -x http://proxy https://example.com

            See also --proxy.

    --pubkey <key>
            (SFTP SCP) Public key filename. Allows you to provide your  public
            key in this separate file.

            curl attempts to  automatically extract  the public  key from  the
            private  key  file,  so  passing  this  option  is  generally  not
            required. Note that  this public key  extraction requires  libcurl
            to be linked  against a copy  of libssh2 1.2.8  or higher that  is
            itself linked against OpenSSL.

            If --pubkey  is provided  several  times, the  last set  value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --pubkey file.pub sftp://example.com/

            See also --pass.

    -Q, --quote <command>
            (FTP SFTP) Send  an arbitrary command  to the  remote FTP or  SFTP
            server. Quote commands  are sent BEFORE  the transfer takes  place
            (just after  the initial PWD  command in  an FTP  transfer, to  be
            exact). To make commands take  place after a successful  transfer,
            prefix them with a dash '-'.

            (FTP only) To  make commands be  sent after  curl has changed  the
            working directory,  just  before  the  file  transfer  command(s),
            prefix the  command  with a  '+'. This  is  not performed  when  a
            directory listing is performed.

            You may specify any number of commands.

            By default  curl stops  at first  failure. To  make curl  continue
            even if the  command fails,  prefix the command  with an  asterisk
            (*). Otherwise,  if the  server  returns failure  for one  of  the
            commands, the entire operation is aborted.

            You must  send  syntactically  correct FTP  commands  as  RFC  959
            defines to FTP  servers, or one  of the  commands listed below  to
            SFTP servers.

            SFTP is a binary  protocol. Unlike for  FTP, curl interprets  SFTP
            quote  commands  itself  before   sending  them  to  the   server.
            Filenames may be  quoted shell-style  to embed  spaces or  special
            characters. Following  is the  list of  all supported  SFTP  quote
            commands:

            atime date file

                The atime command sets the last access time of the  file named
                by the file operand. The  date expression can be all sorts  of
                date strings,  see  the  curl_getdate(3)  man  page  for  date
                expression details. (Added in 7.73.0)

            chgrp group file

                The chgrp command sets the group  ID of the file named by  the
                file operand to the group  ID specified by the group  operand.
                The group operand is a decimal integer group ID.

            chmod mode file

                The  chmod  command  modifies  the  file  mode  bits  of   the
                specified file.  The mode  operand is  an octal  integer  mode
                number.

            chown user file

                The chown  command sets the  owner of  the file  named by  the
                file operand to  the user  ID specified by  the user  operand.
                The user operand is a decimal integer user ID.

            ln source_file target_file

                The ln  and symlink  commands create  a symbolic  link at  the
                target_file location pointing to the source_file location.

            mkdir directory_name

                The  mkdir  command  creates   the  directory  named  by   the
                directory_name operand.

            mtime date file

                The mtime command sets the last modification time of the  file
                named by  the file  operand. The  date expression  can be  all
                sorts of date  strings, see the  curl_getdate(3) man page  for
                date expression details. (Added in 7.73.0)

            pwd

                The pwd command returns the absolute path name of the  current
                working directory.

            rename source target

                The rename command renames the file or directory named by  the
                source operand to  the destination  path named  by the  target
                operand.

            rm file

                The  rm  command  removes  the  file  specified  by  the  file
                operand.

            rmdir directory

                The rmdir  command removes  the directory  entry specified  by
                the directory operand, provided it is empty.

            symlink source_file target_file

                See ln.

            --quote can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --quote "DELE file" ftp://example.com/foo

            See also --request.

    --random-file <file>
            Deprecated option.  This  option  is ignored  (added  in  7.84.0).
            Prior to that it only  had an effect on  curl if built to use  old
            versions of OpenSSL.

            Specify the path  name to  file containing random  data. The  data
            may be used to seed the random engine for SSL connections.

            If --random-file is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --random-file rubbish https://example.com

            See also --egd-file.

    -r, --range <range>
            (HTTP FTP  SFTP  FILE)  Retrieve  a byte  range  (i.e.  a  partial
            document) from an HTTP/1.1,  FTP or SFTP  server or a local  FILE.
            Ranges can be specified in a number of ways.

            0-499

                specifies the first 500 bytes

            500-999

                specifies the second 500 bytes

            -500

                specifies the last 500 bytes

            9500-

                specifies the bytes from offset 9500 and forward

            0-0,-1

                specifies the first and last byte only(*)(HTTP)

            100-199,500-599

                specifies two separate 100-byte ranges(*) (HTTP)

        .RE .IP

                (*) = NOTE that these  make the server reply with a  multipart
                response,  which  is  returned  as-is  by  curl!  Parsing   or
                otherwise transforming this response is the responsibility  of
                the caller.

                Only digit  characters  (0-9) are  valid  in the  'start'  and
                'stop'  fields  of  the   'start-stop'  range  syntax.  If   a
                non-digit character  is  given  in  the  range,  the  server's
                response   is   unspecified,   depending   on   the   server's
                configuration.

                Many HTTP/1.1 servers  do not  have this  feature enabled,  so
                that when you attempt  to get a  range, curl instead gets  the
                whole document.

                FTP  and  SFTP  range   downloads  only  support  the   simple
                'start-stop'  syntax  (optionally  with  one  of  the  numbers
                omitted). FTP use depends on the extended FTP command SIZE.

            If --range is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --range 22-44 https://example.com

            See also --continue-at and --append.

    --rate <max request rate>
            Specify the maximum transfer frequency you allow curl to use  - in
            number of transfer starts per time unit (sometimes called  request
            rate). Without this option, curl starts the next transfer as  fast
            as possible.

            If given several  URLs and  a transfer completes  faster than  the
            allowed rate, curl  waits until  the next transfer  is started  to
            maintain the  requested  rate.  This option  has  no  effect  when
            --parallel is used.

            The request  rate  is provided  as "N/U"  where  N is  an  integer
            number and U  is a time  unit. Supported  units are 's'  (second),
            'm' (minute), 'h'  (hour) and 'd'  /(day, as in  a 24 hour  unit).
            The default  time  unit, if  no "/U"  is  provided, is  number  of
            transfers per hour.

            If curl  is told  to allow  10 requests  per minute,  it does  not
            start the  next request  until 6  seconds have  elapsed since  the
            previous transfer was started.

            This  function  uses  millisecond   resolution.  If  the   allowed
            frequency is  set  more than  1000  per second,  it  instead  runs
            unrestricted.

            When retrying transfers, enabled with --retry, the separate  retry
            delay logic is used and not this setting.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            If --rate is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Examples:
             curl --rate 2/s https://example.com ...
             curl --rate 3/h https://example.com ...
             curl --rate 14/m https://example.com ...

            See also --limit-rate and --retry-delay. Added in 7.84.0.

    --raw
            (HTTP) When  used,  it  disables all  internal  HTTP  decoding  of
            content or transfer  encodings and  instead makes  them passed  on
            unaltered, raw.

            Providing --raw multiple  times has  no extra  effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-raw.

            Example:
             curl --raw https://example.com

            See also --tr-encoding.

    -e, --referer <URL>
            (HTTP) Sends the referrer URL  in the HTTP request. This can  also
            be  set  with  the  --header  flag  of  course.  When   used  with
            --location you can append  ";auto"" to the  --referer URL to  make
            curl  automatically  set  the  previous  URL  when  it  follows  a
            Location: header. The ";auto"  string can be  used alone, even  if
            you do not set an initial --referer.

            If --referer  is provided  several times,  the last  set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl --referer "https://fake.example" https://example.com
             curl --referer "https://fake.example;auto" -L https://example.com
             curl --referer ";auto" -L https://example.com

            See also --user-agent and --header.

    -J, --remote-header-name
            (HTTP) This  option  tells the  --remote-name  option to  use  the
            server-specified   Content-Disposition    filename   instead    of
            extracting  a  filename  from  the  URL.  If  the  server-provided
            filename  contains  a  path,  that  is  stripped  off  before  the
            filename is used.

            The file is saved  in the current  directory, or in the  directory
            specified with --output-dir.

            If the  server specifies  a filename  and a  file  with that  name
            already  exists   in  the   destination  directory,   it  is   not
            overwritten and an  error occurs -  unless you  allow it by  using
            the --clobber option. If  the server does  not specify a  filename
            then this option has no effect.

            There is no attempt  to decode %-sequences  (yet) in the  provided
            filename, so this  option may provide  you with rather  unexpected
            filenames.

            This feature uses the name from the "filename" field, it  does not
            yet  support  the  "filename*"  field  (filenames  with   explicit
            character sets).

            WARNING: Exercise  judicious use  of  this option,  especially  on
            Windows. A rogue server could send you the name of a DLL  or other
            file that could be loaded  automatically by Windows or some  third
            party software.

            Providing  --remote-header-name  multiple   times  has  no   extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-remote-header-name.

            Example:
             curl -OJ https://example.com/file

            See also --remote-name.

    --remote-name-all
            This option changes the  default action for  all given URLs to  be
            dealt with  as if --remote-name  were used  for each  one. If  you
            want to disable  that for a  specific URL after  --remote-name-all
            has been used, you must use "-o -" or --no-remote-name.

            Providing --remote-name-all multiple  times has  no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-remote-name-all.

            Example:
             curl --remote-name-all ftp://example.com/file1 ftp://example.com/file2

            See also --remote-name.

    -O, --remote-name
            Write output to a  local file named like  the remote file we  get.
            (Only the file part  of the remote file is  used, the path is  cut
            off.)

            The file is saved  in the current  working directory. If you  want
            the file saved in a different directory, make sure you  change the
            current working directory  before invoking curl  with this  option
            or use --output-dir.

            The remote filename to use for saving is extracted from  the given
            URL, nothing else, and if it already exists it is  overwritten. If
            you want the  server to be  able to choose  the filename refer  to
            --remote-header-name  which  can  be  used  in  addition  to  this
            option. If the  server chooses  a filename and  that name  already
            exists it is not overwritten.

            There is no URL  decoding done on the filename.  If it has %20  or
            other URL  encoded  parts  of  the  name, they  end  up  as-is  as
            filename.

            You may use this  option as many times as  the number of URLs  you
            have.

            --remote-name can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl -O https://example.com/filename

            See      also       --remote-name-all,      --output-dir       and
            --remote-header-name.

    -R, --remote-time
            Makes curl attempt to figure out the timestamp of the  remote file
            that is  getting downloaded,  and if  that is  available make  the
            local file get that same timestamp.

            Providing  --remote-time  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-remote-time.

            Example:
             curl --remote-time -o foo https://example.com

            See also --remote-name and --time-cond.

    --remove-on-error
            When curl returns  an error when  told to save  output in a  local
            file, this option  removes that  saved file  before exiting.  This
            prevents curl from leaving a partial file in the case of  an error
            during transfer.

            If the output is not a regular file, this option has no effect.

            Providing --remove-on-error multiple  times has  no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-remove-on-error.

            Example:
             curl --remove-on-error -o output https://example.com

            See also --fail. Added in 7.83.0.

    --request-target <path>
            (HTTP) Tells curl to use  an alternative target (path) instead  of
            using the path as  provided in the  URL. Particularly useful  when
            wanting to  issue HTTP  requests without  leading slash  or  other
            data that does not follow  the regular URL pattern, like  "OPTIONS
            *".

            curl passes on  the verbatim string  you give  it its the  request
            without any  filter  or other  safe  guards. That  includes  white
            space and control characters.

            If --request-target is provided several times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --request-target "*" -X OPTIONS https://example.com

            See also --request. Added in 7.55.0.

    -X, --request <method>
            Change the method to use when starting the transfer.

            curl passes on  the verbatim string  you give  it its the  request
            without any  filter  or other  safe  guards. That  includes  white
            space and control characters.

            HTTP

                Specifies a custom  request method to  use when  communicating
                with the HTTP  server. The  specified request  method is  used
                instead of the method otherwise used (which defaults to  GET).
                Read the HTTP 1.1 specification for details and  explanations.
                Common additional HTTP requests include PUT and DELETE,  while
                related technologies like WebDAV  offers PROPFIND, COPY,  MOVE
                and more.

                Normally you do not need this option. All sorts of  GET, HEAD,
                POST and PUT  requests are rather  invoked by using  dedicated
                command line options.

                This option  only changes  the actual  word used  in the  HTTP
                request, it does not alter  the way curl behaves. For  example
                if you want to make a proper HEAD request, using -X  HEAD does
                not suffice. You need to use the --head option.

                The method  string you  set  with --request  is used  for  all
                requests, which if  you for example  use --location may  cause
                unintended side-effects  when  curl does  not  change  request
                method  according  to  the  HTTP  30x  response  codes  -  and
                similar.

            FTP

                Specifies a custom  FTP command  to use instead  of LIST  when
                doing file lists with FTP.

            POP3

                Specifies a  custom POP3  command to  use instead  of LIST  or
                RETR.

            IMAP

                Specifies a custom IMAP command to use instead of LIST.

            SMTP

                Specifies a  custom SMTP  command to  use instead  of HELP  or
                VRFY.

            If --request  is provided  several times,  the last  set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl -X "DELETE" https://example.com
             curl -X NLST ftp://example.com/

            See also --request-target.

    --resolve <[+]host:port:addr[,addr]...>
            Provide a custom address for a specific host and port  pair. Using
            this, you can make  the curl requests(s)  use a specified  address
            and prevent the  otherwise normally resolved  address to be  used.
            Consider it  a  sort of  /etc/hosts  alternative provided  on  the
            command line. The port  number should be  the number used for  the
            specific protocol the host is used for. It means you  need several
            entries if  you want  to provide  address for  the  same host  but
            different ports.

            By specifying '*' as  host you can tell  curl to resolve any  host
            and specific  port  pair to  the  specified address.  Wildcard  is
            resolved last so any  --resolve with a  specific host and port  is
            used first.

            The provided address set by this option is used even if  --ipv4 or
            --ipv6 is set to make curl use another IP version.

            By prefixing the host with a  '+' you can make the entry time  out
            after curl's  default  timeout (1  minute).  Note that  this  only
            makes sense  for long  running parallel  transfers with  a lot  of
            files. In  such  cases,  if this  option  is used  curl  tries  to
            resolve the  host  as  it  normally would  once  the  timeout  has
            expired.

            Support for providing the IP  address within [brackets] was  added
            in 7.57.0.

            Support for providing  multiple IP addresses  per entry was  added
            in 7.59.0.

            Support for resolving with wildcard was added in 7.64.0.

            Support for the '+' prefix was added in 7.75.0.

            --resolve can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --resolve example.com:443:127.0.0.1 https://example.com

            See also --connect-to and --alt-svc.

    --retry-all-errors
            Retry on any error. This option is used together with --retry.

            This option is  the "sledgehammer"  of retrying. Do  not use  this
            option by  default (for  example  in your  curlrc), there  may  be
            unintended consequences  such as  sending or  receiving  duplicate
            data. Do not  use with redirected  input or  output. You might  be
            better off  handling  your  unique problems  in  a  shell  script.
            Please read the example below.

            WARNING: For server  compatibility curl attempts  to retry  failed
            flaky transfers as  close as  possible to how  they were  started,
            but this  is not  possible with  redirected input  or output.  For
            example, before  retrying it  removes output  data from  a  failed
            partial transfer that was written to an output file. However  this
            is not true of data  redirected to a |  pipe or > file, which  are
            not reset. We strongly suggest  you do not parse or record  output
            via redirect  in  combination  with this  option,  since  you  may
            receive duplicate data.

            By default curl does not  return error for transfers with an  HTTP
            response code that indicates  an HTTP error,  if the transfer  was
            successful. For example,  if a  server replies 404  Not Found  and
            the reply  is  fully received  then that  is  not an  error.  When
            --retry is  used then  curl retries  on some  HTTP response  codes
            that indicate transient  HTTP errors,  but that  does not  include
            most 4xx response codes such as  404. If you want to retry on  all
            response codes  that  indicate  HTTP errors  (4xx  and  5xx)  then
            combine with --fail.

            Providing --retry-all-errors multiple times  has no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-retry-all-errors.

            Example:
             curl --retry 5 --retry-all-errors https://example.com

            See also --retry. Added in 7.71.0.

    --retry-connrefused
            In addition to  the other conditions,  consider ECONNREFUSED as  a
            transient error  too for  --retry. This  option is  used  together
            with --retry.

            Providing --retry-connrefused multiple times has no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-retry-connrefused.

            Example:
             curl --retry-connrefused --retry 7 https://example.com

            See also --retry and --retry-all-errors. Added in 7.52.0.

    --retry-delay <seconds>
            Make curl  sleep this  amount of  time before  each  retry when  a
            transfer has  failed  with  a  transient  error  (it  changes  the
            default backoff time  algorithm between retries).  This option  is
            only interesting if --retry  is also used.  Setting this delay  to
            zero makes curl use the default backoff time.

            If --retry-delay is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --retry-delay 5 --retry 7 https://example.com

            See also --retry.

    --retry-max-time <seconds>
            The retry  timer  is  reset before  the  first  transfer  attempt.
            Retries are done as usual (see  --retry) as long as the timer  has
            not reached this  given limit. Notice  that if  the timer has  not
            reached the limit, the  request is made  and while performing,  it
            may take longer  than this given  time period.  To limit a  single
            request's maximum time,  use --max-time. Set  this option to  zero
            to not timeout retries.

            If --retry-max-time is provided several times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --retry-max-time 30 --retry 10 https://example.com

            See also --retry.

    --retry <num>
            If a  transient error is  returned when  curl tries  to perform  a
            transfer, it  retries  this  number of  times  before  giving  up.
            Setting the number  to 0 makes  curl do no  retries (which is  the
            default). Transient  error means  either: a  timeout, an  FTP  4xx
            response code or an HTTP 408,  429, 500, 502, 503 or 504  response
            code.

            When curl is about to retry a transfer, it first waits  one second
            and then for all forthcoming  retries it doubles the waiting  time
            until it reaches 10 minutes  which then remains delay between  the
            rest of  the  retries. By  using  --retry-delay you  disable  this
            exponential backoff algorithm. See also --retry-max-time to  limit
            the total time allowed for retries.

            curl complies with  the Retry-After:  response header  if one  was
            present to know when to issue the next retry (added in 7.66.0).

            If --retry is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --retry 7 https://example.com

            See also --retry-max-time.

    --sasl-authzid <identity>
            Use this  authorization  identity  (authzid),  during  SASL  PLAIN
            authentication,  in  addition   to  the  authentication   identity
            (authcid) as specified by --user.

            If the option  is not  specified, the server  derives the  authzid
            from the authcid, but  if specified, and  depending on the  server
            implementation, it may  be used  to access  another user's  inbox,
            that the user has been granted access to, or a shared  mailbox for
            example.

            If --sasl-authzid is  provided several times,  the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --sasl-authzid zid imap://example.com/

            See also --login-options. Added in 7.66.0.

    --sasl-ir
            Enable initial response in SASL authentication.

            Providing --sasl-ir multiple  times has no  extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-sasl-ir.

            Example:
             curl --sasl-ir imap://example.com/

            See also --sasl-authzid.

    --service-name <name>
            This option allows you to change the service name for SPNEGO.

            If --service-name is  provided several times,  the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --service-name sockd/server https://example.com

            See also --negotiate and --proxy-service-name.

    -S, --show-error
            When used with --silent,  it makes curl  show an error message  if
            it fails.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            Providing  --show-error  multiple  times  has  no  extra   effect.
            Disable it again with --no-show-error.

            Example:
             curl --show-error --silent https://example.com

            See also --no-progress-meter.

    -s, --silent
            Silent  or quiet  mode.  Do  not  show  progress  meter  or  error
            messages. Makes Curl mute. It still outputs the data you  ask for,
            potentially even to the terminal/stdout unless you redirect it.

            Use --show-error in  addition to this  option to disable  progress
            meter but still show error messages.

            Providing --silent multiple times has no extra effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-silent.

            Example:
             curl -s https://example.com

            See also --verbose, --stderr and --no-progress-meter.

    --socks4 <host[:port]>
            Use  the specified  SOCKS4  proxy.  If  the  port  number  is  not
            specified, it  is assumed  at port  1080. Using  this socket  type
            make curl resolve the hostname  and passing the address on to  the
            proxy.

            To specify proxy on a unix domain socket, use localhost  for host,
            e.g. "socks4://localhost/path/to/socket.sock"

            This option overrides  any previous  use of --proxy,  as they  are
            mutually exclusive.

            This option is superfluous  since you can  specify a socks4  proxy
            with --proxy using a socks4:// protocol prefix.

            --preproxy can be used to specify  a SOCKS proxy at the same  time
            proxy is used with an HTTP/HTTPS proxy (added in 7.52.0).  In such
            a case, curl first connects  to the SOCKS proxy and then  connects
            (through SOCKS) to the HTTP or HTTPS proxy.

            If --socks4  is provided  several  times, the  last set  value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --socks4 hostname:4096 https://example.com

            See also --socks4a, --socks5 and --socks5-hostname.

    --socks4a <host[:port]>
            Use the  specified  SOCKS4a  proxy.  If the  port  number  is  not
            specified, it  is assumed at  port 1080.  This asks  the proxy  to
            resolve the hostname.

            To specify proxy on a unix domain socket, use localhost  for host,
            e.g. "socks4a://localhost/path/to/socket.sock"

            This option overrides  any previous  use of --proxy,  as they  are
            mutually exclusive.

            This option is superfluous since  you can specify a socks4a  proxy
            with --proxy using a socks4a:// protocol prefix.

            --preproxy can be used to specify  a SOCKS proxy at the same  time
            --proxy is used  with an  HTTP/HTTPS proxy (added  in 7.52.0).  In
            such a  case, curl  first connects  to the  SOCKS  proxy and  then
            connects (through SOCKS) to the HTTP or HTTPS proxy.

            If --socks4a  is provided  several times,  the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --socks4a hostname:4096 https://example.com

            See also --socks4, --socks5 and --socks5-hostname.

    --socks5-basic
            Tells  curl   to   use   username/password   authentication   when
            connecting   to    a   SOCKS5    proxy.   The    username/password
            authentication is  enabled  by  default.  Use  --socks5-gssapi  to
            force GSS-API authentication to SOCKS5 proxies.

            Providing --socks5-basic multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --socks5-basic --socks5 hostname:4096 https://example.com

            See also --socks5. Added in 7.55.0.

    --socks5-gssapi-nec
            As  part  of  the  GSS-API   negotiation  a  protection  mode   is
            negotiated.  RFC  1961  says  in  section  4.3/4.4  it  should  be
            protected, but  the NEC  reference  implementation does  not.  The
            option --socks5-gssapi-nec allows the unprotected exchange of  the
            protection mode negotiation.

            Providing --socks5-gssapi-nec multiple times has no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-socks5-gssapi-nec.

            Example:
             curl --socks5-gssapi-nec --socks5 hostname:4096 https://example.com

            See also --socks5.

    --socks5-gssapi-service <name>
            The default service name for  a socks server is  rcmd/server-fqdn.
            This option allows you to change it.

            If --socks5-gssapi-service  is provided  several times,  the  last
            set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --socks5-gssapi-service sockd --socks5 hostname:4096 https://example.com

            See also --socks5.

    --socks5-gssapi
            Tells curl  to use  GSS-API authentication  when connecting  to  a
            SOCKS5 proxy.  The GSS-API  authentication is  enabled by  default
            (if curl is compiled with GSS-API support). Use --socks5-basic  to
            force username/password authentication to SOCKS5 proxies.

            Providing --socks5-gssapi  multiple  times has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-socks5-gssapi.

            Example:
             curl --socks5-gssapi --socks5 hostname:4096 https://example.com

            See also --socks5. Added in 7.55.0.

    --socks5-hostname <host[:port]>
            Use the  specified SOCKS5  proxy (and  let the  proxy resolve  the
            hostname). If the port number  is not specified, it is assumed  at
            port 1080.

            To specify proxy on a unix domain socket, use localhost  for host,
            e.g. "socks5h://localhost/path/to/socket.sock"

            This option overrides  any previous  use of --proxy,  as they  are
            mutually exclusive.

            This  option  is  superfluous  since  you  can  specify  a  socks5
            hostname proxy with --proxy using a socks5h:// protocol prefix.

            --preproxy can be used to specify  a SOCKS proxy at the same  time
            --proxy is used  with an  HTTP/HTTPS proxy (added  in 7.52.0).  In
            such a  case, curl  first connects  to the  SOCKS  proxy and  then
            connects (through SOCKS) to the HTTP or HTTPS proxy.

            If --socks5-hostname  is  provided  several times,  the  last  set
            value is used.

            Example:
             curl --socks5-hostname proxy.example:7000 https://example.com

            See also --socks5 and --socks4a.

    --socks5 <host[:port]>
            Use  the  specified  SOCKS5  proxy  -  but  resolve  the  hostname
            locally. If the  port number is  not specified,  it is assumed  at
            port 1080.

            To specify proxy on a unix domain socket, use localhost  for host,
            e.g. "socks5://localhost/path/to/socket.sock"

            This option overrides  any previous  use of --proxy,  as they  are
            mutually exclusive.

            This option is superfluous  since you can  specify a socks5  proxy
            with --proxy using a socks5:// protocol prefix.

            --preproxy can be used to specify  a SOCKS proxy at the same  time
            --proxy is used  with an  HTTP/HTTPS proxy (added  in 7.52.0).  In
            such a  case, curl  first connects  to the  SOCKS  proxy and  then
            connects (through SOCKS) to the HTTP or HTTPS proxy.

            This option (as well  as --socks4) does  not work with IPV6,  FTPS
            or LDAP.

            If --socks5  is provided  several  times, the  last set  value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --socks5 proxy.example:7000 https://example.com

            See also --socks5-hostname and --socks4a.

    -Y, --speed-limit <speed>
            If a transfer is slower than this set speed (in bytes  per second)
            for a given number  of seconds, it  gets aborted. The time  period
            is set with --speed-time and is 30 seconds by default.

            If --speed-limit is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --speed-limit 300 --speed-time 10 https://example.com

            See also --speed-time, --limit-rate and --max-time.

    -y, --speed-time <seconds>
            If a  transfer  runs  slower than  speed-limit  bytes  per  second
            during  a  speed-time   period,  the  transfer   is  aborted.   If
            speed-time is used, the default  speed-limit is 1 unless set  with
            --speed-limit.

            This option controls transfers (in  both directions) but does  not
            affect slow connects etc.  If this is a  concern for you, try  the
            --connect-timeout option.

            If --speed-time is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --speed-limit 300 --speed-time 10 https://example.com

            See also --speed-limit and --limit-rate.

    --ssl-allow-beast
            (TLS) This option tells  curl to not  work around a security  flaw
            in the SSL3 and  TLS1.0 protocols known  as BEAST. If this  option
            is not  used, the SSL  layer may  use workarounds  known to  cause
            interoperability problems with some older SSL implementations.

            WARNING: this option loosens the  SSL security, and by using  this
            flag you ask for exactly that.

            Providing --ssl-allow-beast multiple  times has  no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-ssl-allow-beast.

            Example:
             curl --ssl-allow-beast https://example.com

            See also --proxy-ssl-allow-beast and --insecure.

    --ssl-auto-client-cert
            (TLS) (Schannel) Tell  libcurl to automatically  locate and use  a
            client certificate  for  authentication,  when  requested  by  the
            server.  Since  the  server  can  request  any  certificate   that
            supports client  authentication in  the  OS certificate  store  it
            could be a privacy violation and unexpected.

            Providing  --ssl-auto-client-cert  multiple  times  has  no  extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-ssl-auto-client-cert.

            Example:
             curl --ssl-auto-client-cert https://example.com

            See also --proxy-ssl-auto-client-cert. Added in 7.77.0.

    --ssl-no-revoke
            (TLS) (Schannel)  This option  tells curl  to disable  certificate
            revocation checks. WARNING: this option loosens the SSL  security,
            and by using this flag you ask for exactly that.

            Providing --ssl-no-revoke  multiple  times has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-ssl-no-revoke.

            Example:
             curl --ssl-no-revoke https://example.com

            See also --crlfile.

    --ssl-reqd
            (FTP IMAP  POP3 SMTP  LDAP) Require  SSL/TLS for  the  connection.
            Terminates the connection  if the transfer  cannot be upgraded  to
            use SSL/TLS.

            This option  is handled in  LDAP (added  in 7.81.0).  It is  fully
            supported by  the OpenLDAP  backend and  rejected by  the  generic
            ldap backend if explicit TLS is required.

            This option is unnecessary if you use a URL scheme that  in itself
            implies immediate and implicit use  of TLS, like for FTPS,  IMAPS,
            POP3S, SMTPS and LDAPS.  Such a transfer  always fails if the  TLS
            handshake does not work.

            This option was formerly known as --ftp-ssl-reqd.

            Providing --ssl-reqd multiple times  has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-ssl-reqd.

            Example:
             curl --ssl-reqd ftp://example.com

            See also --ssl and --insecure.

    --ssl-revoke-best-effort
            (TLS) (Schannel)  This option  tells  curl to  ignore  certificate
            revocation  checks  when  they   failed  due  to   missing/offline
            distribution points for the revocation check lists.

            Providing --ssl-revoke-best-effort  multiple  times has  no  extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-ssl-revoke-best-effort.

            Example:
             curl --ssl-revoke-best-effort https://example.com

            See also --crlfile and --insecure. Added in 7.70.0.

    --ssl
            (FTP IMAP POP3 SMTP LDAP) Warning: this is considered an  insecure
            option.  Consider  using  --ssl-reqd  instead  to  be  sure   curl
            upgrades to a secure connection.

            Try to use  SSL/TLS for  the connection. Reverts  to a  non-secure
            connection if  the  server  does not  support  SSL/TLS.  See  also
            --ftp-ssl-control  and   --ssl-reqd   for  different   levels   of
            encryption required.

            This option  is handled in  LDAP (added  in 7.81.0).  It is  fully
            supported by the OpenLDAP backend and ignored by the generic  ldap
            backend.

            Please  note that  a  server  may  close  the  connection  if  the
            negotiation does not succeed.

            This option was formerly known as --ftp-ssl. That option name  can
            still be used but might be removed in a future version.

            Providing --ssl multiple  times has  no extra  effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-ssl.

            Example:
             curl --ssl pop3://example.com/

            See also --ssl-reqd, --insecure and --ciphers.

    -2, --sslv2
            (SSL) This option previously asked  curl to use SSLv2, but is  now
            ignored (added  in 7.77.0).  SSLv2 is  widely considered  insecure
            (see RFC 6176).

            Providing --sslv2 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --sslv2 https://example.com

            See  also  --http1.1  and  --http2.  --sslv2  requires  that   the
            underlying libcurl  was  built  to support  TLS.  This  option  is
            mutually exclusive  to  --sslv3  and  --tlsv1  and  --tlsv1.1  and
            --tlsv1.2.

    -3, --sslv3
            (SSL) This option previously asked  curl to use SSLv3, but is  now
            ignored (added  in 7.77.0).  SSLv3 is  widely considered  insecure
            (see RFC 7568).

            Providing --sslv3 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --sslv3 https://example.com

            See  also  --http1.1  and  --http2.  --sslv3  requires  that   the
            underlying libcurl  was  built  to support  TLS.  This  option  is
            mutually exclusive  to  --sslv2  and  --tlsv1  and  --tlsv1.1  and
            --tlsv1.2.

    --stderr <file>
            Redirect all writes to  stderr to the  specified file instead.  If
            the filename is a plain '-', it is instead written to stdout.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            If --stderr  is provided  several  times, the  last set  value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --stderr output.txt https://example.com

            See also --verbose and --silent.

    --styled-output
            Enables the automatic use  of bold font  styles when writing  HTTP
            headers to  the terminal.  Use --no-styled-output  to switch  them
            off.

            Styled output requires a terminal  that supports bold fonts.  This
            feature is not  present on curl  for Windows due  to lack of  this
            capability.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            Providing --styled-output  multiple  times has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-styled-output.

            Example:
             curl --styled-output -I https://example.com

            See also --head and --verbose. Added in 7.61.0.

    --suppress-connect-headers
            When --proxytunnel is used  and a CONNECT  request is made do  not
            output proxy CONNECT response headers. This option is meant to  be
            used with  --dump-header  or  --include which  are  used  to  show
            protocol headers in the output. It has no effect on  debug options
            such as --verbose or --trace, or any statistics.

            Providing --suppress-connect-headers multiple  times has no  extra
            effect. Disable it again with --no-suppress-connect-headers.

            Example:
             curl --suppress-connect-headers --include -x proxy https://example.com

            See also  --dump-header,  --include and  --proxytunnel.  Added  in
            7.54.0.

    --tcp-fastopen
            Enable use of  TCP Fast Open (RFC  7413). TCP Fast  Open is a  TCP
            extension  that  allows  data  to   get  sent  earlier  over   the
            connection (before  the final  handshake ACK)  if the  client  and
            server have been connected previously.

            Providing --tcp-fastopen  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-tcp-fastopen.

            Example:
             curl --tcp-fastopen https://example.com

            See also --false-start.

    --tcp-nodelay
            Turn on the  TCP_NODELAY option. See  the curl_easy_setopt(3)  man
            page for details about this option.

            curl sets  this  option by  default  and you  need  to  explicitly
            switch it off if you do not want it on (added in 7.50.2).

            Providing  --tcp-nodelay  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-tcp-nodelay.

            Example:
             curl --tcp-nodelay https://example.com

            See also --no-buffer.

    -t, --telnet-option <opt=val>
            Pass options to the telnet protocol. Supported options are:

            `TTYPE=<term>`

                Sets the terminal type.

            `XDISPLOC=<X display>`

                Sets the X display location.

            `NEW_ENV=<var,val>`

                Sets an environment variable.

            --telnet-option can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl -t TTYPE=vt100 telnet://example.com/

            See also --config.

    --tftp-blksize <value>
            (TFTP) Set the TFTP BLKSIZE  option (must be 512 or larger).  This
            is the block size  that curl tries  to use when transferring  data
            to or from a TFTP server. By default 512 bytes are used.

            If --tftp-blksize is  provided several times,  the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --tftp-blksize 1024 tftp://example.com/file

            See also --tftp-no-options.

    --tftp-no-options
            (TFTP) Tells curl not to send TFTP options requests.

            This option improves interop with some legacy servers that do  not
            acknowledge or properly implement  TFTP options. When this  option
            is used --tftp-blksize is ignored.

            Providing --tftp-no-options multiple  times has  no extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-tftp-no-options.

            Example:
             curl --tftp-no-options tftp://192.168.0.1/

            See also --tftp-blksize.

    -z, --time-cond <time>
            (HTTP FTP) Request a  file that has  been modified later than  the
            given time and  date, or one  that has  been modified before  that
            time. The date expression can be  all sorts of date strings or  if
            it does not match any internal  ones, it is treated as a  filename
            and curl  tries to  get the  modification date  (mtime) from  that
            file  instead.  See  the   curl_getdate(3)  man  pages  for   date
            expression details.

            Start the date expression with a  dash (-) to make it request  for
            a document that is  older than the  given date/time, default is  a
            document that is newer than the specified date/time.

            If provided  a non-existing  file, curl  outputs a  warning  about
            that  fact  and  proceeds  to  do  the  transfer  without  a  time
            condition.

            If --time-cond is provided  several times, the  last set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl -z "Wed 01 Sep 2021 12:18:00" https://example.com
             curl -z "-Wed 01 Sep 2021 12:18:00" https://example.com
             curl -z file https://example.com

            See also --etag-compare and --remote-time.

    --tls-max <VERSION>
            (TLS) VERSION defines maximum  supported TLS version. The  minimum
            acceptable  version  is  set  by  tlsv1.0,  tlsv1.1,  tlsv1.2   or
            tlsv1.3.

            If the connection is done without TLS, this option has  no effect.
            This includes QUIC-using (HTTP/3) transfers.

            default

                Use up to recommended TLS version.

            1.0

                Use up to TLSv1.0.

            1.1

                Use up to TLSv1.1.

            1.2

                Use up to TLSv1.2.

            1.3

                Use up to TLSv1.3.

            If --tls-max  is provided  several times,  the last  set value  is
            used.

            Examples:
             curl --tls-max 1.2 https://example.com
             curl --tls-max 1.3 --tlsv1.2 https://example.com

            See also --tlsv1.0, --tlsv1.1, --tlsv1.2 and --tlsv1.3.  --tls-max
            requires that the  underlying libcurl  was built  to support  TLS.
            Added in 7.54.0.

    --tls13-ciphers <ciphersuite list>
            (TLS) Specifies which cipher  suites to use  in the connection  if
            it negotiates TLS  1.3. The  list of ciphers  suites must  specify
            valid ciphers. Read  up on TLS  1.3 cipher  suite details on  this
            URL:

            https://curl.se/docs/ssl-ciphers.html

            This option  is currently  used only  when curl  is  built to  use
            OpenSSL 1.1.1 or later, or Schannel. If you are using  a different
            SSL backend you  can try setting  TLS 1.3  cipher suites by  using
            the --ciphers option.

            If --tls13-ciphers is provided several  times, the last set  value
            is used.

            Example:
             curl --tls13-ciphers TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 https://example.com

            See also --ciphers, --curves  and --proxy-tls13-ciphers. Added  in
            7.61.0.

    --tlsauthtype <type>
            (TLS) Set TLS authentication  type. Currently, the only  supported
            option  is  "SRP",  for  TLS-SRP  (RFC  5054).  If  --tlsuser  and
            --tlspassword are specified  but --tlsauthtype is  not, then  this
            option  defaults  to  "SRP".  This   option  works  only  if   the
            underlying libcurl is built  with TLS-SRP support, which  requires
            OpenSSL or GnuTLS with TLS-SRP support.

            If --tlsauthtype is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --tlsauthtype SRP https://example.com

            See also --tlsuser.

    --tlspassword <string>
            (TLS) Set  password for  use with  the TLS  authentication  method
            specified with  --tlsauthtype.  Requires that  --tlsuser  also  be
            set.

            This option does not work with TLS 1.3.

            If --tlspassword is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --tlspassword pwd --tlsuser user https://example.com

            See also --tlsuser.

    --tlsuser <name>
            (TLS) Set  username for  use with  the TLS  authentication  method
            specified with --tlsauthtype. Requires that --tlspassword also  is
            set.

            This option does not work with TLS 1.3.

            If --tlsuser  is provided  several times,  the last  set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --tlspassword pwd --tlsuser user https://example.com

            See also --tlspassword.

    --tlsv1.0
            (TLS) Forces curl to use TLS version 1.0 or later  when connecting
            to a remote TLS server.

            In old  versions  of curl  this  option was  documented  to  allow
            _only_ TLS 1.0.  That behavior was  inconsistent depending on  the
            TLS library.  Use  --tls-max if  you want  to  set a  maximum  TLS
            version.

            Providing --tlsv1.0 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --tlsv1.0 https://example.com

            See also --tlsv1.3.

    --tlsv1.1
            (TLS) Forces curl to use TLS version 1.1 or later  when connecting
            to a remote TLS server.

            In old  versions  of curl  this  option was  documented  to  allow
            _only_ TLS 1.1.  That behavior was  inconsistent depending on  the
            TLS library.  Use  --tls-max if  you want  to  set a  maximum  TLS
            version.

            Providing --tlsv1.1 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --tlsv1.1 https://example.com

            See also --tlsv1.3 and --tls-max.

    --tlsv1.2
            (TLS) Forces curl to use TLS version 1.2 or later  when connecting
            to a remote TLS server.

            In old  versions  of curl  this  option was  documented  to  allow
            _only_ TLS 1.2.  That behavior was  inconsistent depending on  the
            TLS library.  Use  --tls-max if  you want  to  set a  maximum  TLS
            version.

            Providing --tlsv1.2 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --tlsv1.2 https://example.com

            See also --tlsv1.3 and --tls-max.

    --tlsv1.3
            (TLS) Forces curl to use TLS version 1.3 or later  when connecting
            to a remote TLS server.

            If the connection is done without TLS, this option has  no effect.
            This includes QUIC-using (HTTP/3) transfers.

            Note that TLS 1.3 is not supported by all TLS backends.

            Providing --tlsv1.3 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --tlsv1.3 https://example.com

            See also --tlsv1.2 and --tls-max. Added in 7.52.0.

    -1, --tlsv1
            (TLS) Tells curl to use at least TLS version 1.x  when negotiating
            with a remote TLS server. That means TLS version 1.0 or higher

            Providing --tlsv1 multiple times has no extra effect.

            Example:
             curl --tlsv1 https://example.com

            See  also  --http1.1  and  --http2.  --tlsv1  requires  that   the
            underlying libcurl  was  built  to support  TLS.  This  option  is
            mutually exclusive to --tlsv1.1 and --tlsv1.2 and --tlsv1.3.

    --tr-encoding
            (HTTP) Request a compressed  Transfer-Encoding response using  one
            of the algorithms  curl supports,  and uncompress  the data  while
            receiving it.

            Providing  --tr-encoding  multiple  times  has  no  extra  effect.
            Disable it again with --no-tr-encoding.

            Example:
             curl --tr-encoding https://example.com

            See also --compressed.

    --trace-ascii <file>
            Enables a  full trace  dump  of all  incoming and  outgoing  data,
            including descriptive information, to  the given output file.  Use
            "-" as filename to have the output sent to stdout.

            This is similar to --trace, but  leaves out the hex part and  only
            shows the ASCII  part of the  dump. It  makes smaller output  that
            might be easier to read for untrained humans.

            Note that verbose  output of curl  activities and network  traffic
            might contain sensitive data, including usernames, credentials  or
            secret data content. Be  aware and be  careful when sharing  trace
            logs with others.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            If --trace-ascii is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --trace-ascii log.txt https://example.com

            See also --verbose and --trace. This option is mutually  exclusive
            to --trace and --verbose.

    --trace-config <string>
            Set configuration  for trace  output.  A comma-separated  list  of
            components where  detailed  output  can be  made  available  from.
            Names are  case-insensitive. Specify  'all'  to enable  all  trace
            components.

            In addition to trace component names, specify "ids" and "time"  to
            avoid extra --trace-ids or --trace-time parameters.

            See the curl_global_trace(3) man page for more details.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            --trace-config can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --trace-config ids,http/2 https://example.com

            See also --verbose and --trace. Added in 8.3.0.

    --trace-ids
            Prepends the transfer and connection identifiers to each trace  or
            verbose line that curl displays.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            Providing --trace-ids multiple times has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-trace-ids.

            Example:
             curl --trace-ids --trace-ascii output https://example.com

            See also --trace and --verbose. Added in 8.2.0.

    --trace-time
            Prepends a  time stamp to  each trace  or verbose  line that  curl
            displays.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            Providing  --trace-time  multiple  times  has  no  extra   effect.
            Disable it again with --no-trace-time.

            Example:
             curl --trace-time --trace-ascii output https://example.com

            See also --trace and --verbose.

    --trace <file>
            Enables a  full trace  dump  of all  incoming and  outgoing  data,
            including descriptive information, to  the given output file.  Use
            "-" as filename  to have  the output  sent to stdout.  Use "%"  as
            filename to have the output sent to stderr.

            Note that verbose  output of curl  activities and network  traffic
            might contain sensitive data, including usernames, credentials  or
            secret data content. Be  aware and be  careful when sharing  trace
            logs with others.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            If --trace is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl --trace log.txt https://example.com

            See   also   --trace-ascii,   --trace-config,   --trace-ids    and
            --trace-time. This option is  mutually exclusive to --verbose  and
            --trace-ascii.

    --unix-socket <path>
            (HTTP) Connect through this Unix  domain socket, instead of  using
            the network.

            If --unix-socket is provided several times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl --unix-socket socket-path https://example.com

            See also --abstract-unix-socket.

    -T, --upload-file <file>
            This transfers the specified local file to the remote URL.

            If there is no  file part in the  specified URL, curl appends  the
            local file  name  to  the end  of  the URL  before  the  operation
            starts. You must use  a trailing slash  (/) on the last  directory
            to prove to  curl that there  is no filename  or curl thinks  that
            your last directory name is the remote filename to use.

            When putting  the  local filename  at the  end  of the  URL,  curl
            ignores what is  on the left  side of any  slash (/) or  backslash
            (\) used in  the filename and  only appends what  is on the  right
            side of the rightmost such character.

            Use the filename  "-" (a single  dash) to use  stdin instead of  a
            given file. Alternately,  the filename "."  (a single period)  may
            be specified instead of "-"  to use stdin in non-blocking mode  to
            allow reading server output while stdin is being uploaded.

            If this option  is used  with an  HTTP(S) URL, the  PUT method  is
            used.

            You can  specify one  --upload-file for  each URL  on the  command
            line. Each --upload-file + URL  pair specifies what to upload  and
            to  where.  curl  also  supports  globbing  of  the  --upload-file
            argument, meaning that you can  upload multiple files to a  single
            URL by using the same URL globbing style supported in the URL.

            When uploading to an SMTP server: the uploaded data is  assumed to
            be RFC  5322 formatted. It  has to  feature the  necessary set  of
            headers and  mail body  formatted correctly  by the  user as  curl
            does not transcode nor encode it further in any way.

            --upload-file can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl -T file https://example.com
             curl -T "img[1-1000].png" ftp://ftp.example.com/
             curl --upload-file "{file1,file2}" https://example.com

            See also --get, --head, --request and --data.

    --url-query <data>
            (all) This option  adds a piece  of data, usually  a name +  value
            pair, to the end  of the URL query  part. The syntax is  identical
            to that used for --data-urlencode with one extension:

            If the argument starts with a  '+' (plus), the rest of the  string
            is provided as-is unencoded.

            The query part of a URL is the one following the question  mark on
            the right end.

            --url-query can be used several times in a command line

            Examples:
             curl --url-query name=val https://example.com
             curl --url-query =encodethis http://example.net/foo
             curl --url-query name@file https://example.com
             curl --url-query @fileonly https://example.com
             curl --url-query "+name=%20foo" https://example.com

            See also --data-urlencode and --get. Added in 7.87.0.

    --url <url>
            Specify a URL to fetch. This option is mostly handy when  you want
            to specify URL(s) in a config file.

            If the given URL  is missing a scheme  name (such as "http://"  or
            "ftp://" etc) then curl  makes a guess based  on the host. If  the
            outermost subdomain name  matches DICT, FTP,  IMAP, LDAP, POP3  or
            SMTP then that protocol is used, otherwise HTTP is used.  Guessing
            can be avoided by  providing a full  URL including the scheme,  or
            disabled by  setting a  default protocol  (added in  7.45.0),  see
            --proto-default for details.

            To control  where this URL  is written,  use the  --output or  the
            --remote-name options.

            WARNING:  On  Windows,  particular   "file://"  accesses  can   be
            converted to network accesses by the operating system. Beware!

            --url can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --url https://example.com

            See also --next and --config.

    -B, --use-ascii
            (FTP LDAP)  Enable  ASCII transfer.  For  FTP, this  can  also  be
            enforced by  using a  URL that  ends with  ";type=A". This  option
            causes data sent to stdout to be in text mode for win32 systems.

            Providing --use-ascii multiple times has no extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-use-ascii.

            Example:
             curl -B ftp://example.com/README

            See also --crlf and --data-ascii.

    -A, --user-agent <name>
            (HTTP) Specify the User-Agent string  to send to the HTTP  server.
            To encode blanks in  the string, surround  the string with  single
            quote marks. This header can also be set with the --header  or the
            --proxy-header options.

            If you give  an empty  argument to --user-agent  (""), it  removes
            the header  completely from  the request.  If you  prefer a  blank
            header, you can set it to a single space (" ").

            If --user-agent is provided several  times, the last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl -A "Agent 007" https://example.com

            See also --header and --proxy-header.

    -u, --user <user:password>
            Specify  the   username   and   password   to   use   for   server
            authentication. Overrides --netrc and --netrc-optional.

            If you simply specify the username, curl prompts for a password.

            The username and passwords are split up on the first  colon, which
            makes it  impossible to  use a  colon in  the  username with  this
            option. The password can, still.

            On systems where it  works, curl hides  the given option  argument
            from process listings. This is  not enough to protect  credentials
            from possibly getting seen  by other users  on the same system  as
            they  still  are  visible  for  a  moment  before  cleared.   Such
            sensitive data should be retrieved from a file instead or  similar
            and never used in clear text in a command line.

            When using  Kerberos V5  with a  Windows based  server you  should
            include the Windows domain name in the username, in order  for the
            server to successfully obtain  a Kerberos Ticket.  If you do  not,
            then the initial authentication handshake may fail.

            When using  NTLM, the  username  can be  specified simply  as  the
            username, without  the domain,  if there  is a  single domain  and
            forest in your setup for example.

            To specify the  domain name  use either Down-Level  Logon Name  or
            UPN (User Principal Name)  formats. For example, EXAMPLE\user  and
            user@example.com respectively.

            If  you  use  a  Windows  SSPI-enabled  curl  binary  and  perform
            Kerberos V5,  Negotiate, NTLM  or Digest  authentication then  you
            can tell  curl  to select  the  username and  password  from  your
            environment by specifying  a single  colon with  this option:  "-u
            :".

            If --user is provided several times, the last set value is used.

            Example:
             curl -u user:secret https://example.com

            See also --netrc and --config.

    --variable <[%]name=text/@file>
            Set a variable  with "name=content" or  "name@file" (where  "file"
            can be stdin if set  to a single dash  ("-")). The name is a  case
            sensitive identifier that  must consist of  no other letters  than
            a-z, A-Z,  0-9  or  underscore.  The  specified  content  is  then
            associated with this identifier.

            Setting the same variable name  again overwrites the old  contents
            with the new.

            The contents of a  variable can be  referenced in a later  command
            line option when  that option name  is prefixed with  "--expand-",
            and the name is used as "{{name}}".

            --variable can import environment  variables into the name  space.
            Opt to  either  require the  environment  variable to  be  set  or
            provide a  default  value  for the  variable  in case  it  is  not
            already set.

            --variable %name  imports the  variable  called "name"  but  exits
            with an error if that environment variable is not already  set. To
            provide a default value  if the environment  variable is not  set,
            use --variable  %name=content  or --variable  %name@content.  Note
            that on some  systems - but  not all  - environment variables  are
            case insensitive.

            When expanding variables,  curl supports a  set of functions  that
            can make the variable contents  more convenient to use. You  apply
            a function  to a variable  expansion by  adding a  colon and  then
            list the  desired  functions in  a  comma-separated list  that  is
            evaluated in a left-to-right order. Variable content holding  null
            bytes that are not encoded when expanded, causes an error.

            Available functions:

            trim

                removes all leading and trailing white space.

            json

                outputs the content using JSON string quoting rules.

            url

                shows the content URL (percent) encoded.

            b64

                expands the variable base64 encoded

            --variable can be used several times in a command line

            Example:
             curl --variable name=smith https://example.com

            See also --config. Added in 8.3.0.

    -v, --verbose
            Makes curl verbose during the operation. Useful for debugging  and
            seeing what's  going on under  the hood.  A line  starting with  >
            means header data sent  by curl, <  means header data received  by
            curl that is hidden  in normal cases, and  a line starting with  *
            means additional info provided by curl.

            If  you only  want  HTTP  headers  in  the  output,  --include  or
            --dump-header might be more suitable options.

            If you think this option  still does not give you enough  details,
            consider using --trace or --trace-ascii instead.

            Note that verbose  output of curl  activities and network  traffic
            might contain sensitive data, including usernames, credentials  or
            secret data content. Be  aware and be  careful when sharing  trace
            logs with others.

            This option is global and does  not need to be specified for  each
            use of --next.

            Providing --verbose multiple  times has no  extra effect.  Disable
            it again with --no-verbose.

            Example:
             curl --verbose https://example.com

            See also  --include,  --silent, --trace  and  --trace-ascii.  This
            option is mutually exclusive to --trace and --trace-ascii.

    -V, --version
            Displays information about curl and the libcurl version it uses.

            The first  line includes  the full  version of  curl, libcurl  and
            other 3rd party libraries linked with the executable.

            The second line  (starts with "Release-Date:")  shows the  release
            date.

            The third  line (starts  with  "Protocols:") shows  all  protocols
            that libcurl reports to support.

            The fourth line (starts with "Features:") shows specific  features
            libcurl reports to offer. Available features include:

            `alt-svc`

                Support for the Alt-Svc: header is provided.

            `AsynchDNS`

                This curl uses asynchronous  name resolves. Asynchronous  name
                resolves can be done using  either the c-ares or the  threaded
                resolver backends.

            `brotli`

                Support for automatic brotli compression over HTTP(S).

            `CharConv`

                curl was  built with  support  for character  set  conversions
                (like EBCDIC)

            `Debug`

                This curl uses a libcurl  built with Debug. This enables  more
                error-tracking and memory  debugging etc. For  curl-developers
                only!

            `gsasl`

                The  built-in  SASL  authentication  includes  extensions   to
                support SCRAM because libcurl was built with libgsasl.

            `GSS-API`

                GSS-API is supported.

            `HSTS`

                HSTS support is present.

            `HTTP2`

                HTTP/2 support has been built-in.

            `HTTP3`

                HTTP/3 support has been built-in.

            `HTTPS-proxy`

                This curl is built to support HTTPS proxy.

            `IDN`

                This curl supports IDN - international domain names.

            `IPv6`

                You can use IPv6 with this.

            `Kerberos`

                Kerberos V5 authentication is supported.

            `Largefile`

                This curl  supports transfers  of  large files,  files  larger
                than 2GB.

            `libz`

                Automatic decompression  (via  gzip,  deflate)  of  compressed
                files over HTTP is supported.

            `MultiSSL`

                This curl supports multiple TLS backends.

            `NTLM`

                NTLM authentication is supported.

            `NTLM_WB`

                NTLM delegation to winbind helper is supported.

            `PSL`

                PSL is short for Public  Suffix List and means that this  curl
                has been built with knowledge about "public suffixes".

            `SPNEGO`

                SPNEGO authentication is supported.

            `SSL`

                SSL versions  of  various  protocols are  supported,  such  as
                HTTPS, FTPS, POP3S and so on.

            `SSPI`

                SSPI is supported.

            `TLS-SRP`

                SRP (Secure Remote Password)  authentication is supported  for
                TLS.

            `TrackMemory`

                Debug memory tracking is supported.

            `Unicode`

                Unicode support on Windows.

            `UnixSockets`

                Unix sockets support is provided.

            `zstd`

                Automatic decompression (via  zstd) of  compressed files  over
                HTTP is supported.

            Example:
             curl --version

            See also --help and --manual.

    -w, --write-out <format>
            Make  curl  display  information  on  stdout  after  a   completed
            transfer. The  format is  a  string that  may contain  plain  text
            mixed with any number  of variables. The  format can be  specified
            as a literal "string", or you  can have curl read the format  from
            a file with "@filename" and to  tell curl to read the format  from
            stdin you write "@-".

            The variables present in the output format are substituted by  the
            value or  text  that curl  thinks  fit, as  described  below.  All
            variables are  specified  as  %{variable_name}  and  to  output  a
            normal % you just  write them as %%. You  can output a newline  by
            using \n, a carriage return with \r and a tab space with \t.

            The output is by  default written to  standard output, but can  be
            changed with %{stderr} and %output{}.

            Output  HTTP  headers  from  the  most  recent  request  by  using
            %header{name} where  name  is the  case  insensitive name  of  the
            header (without  the  trailing  colon). The  header  contents  are
            exactly as  sent  over  the network,  with  leading  and  trailing
            whitespace trimmed (added in 7.84.0).

            Select a specific target destination file to write the output  to,
            by using %output{name}  (added in  curl 8.3.0) where  name is  the
            full filename.  The  output  following that  instruction  is  then
            written to that file. More  than one %output{} instruction can  be
            specified in the same write-out  argument. If the filename  cannot
            be created, curl  leaves the  output destination to  the one  used
            prior to the %output{} instruction. Use %output{>>name} to  append
            data to an existing file.

            This output  is done  independently of  if the  file transfer  was
            successful or not.

            If the  specified  action or  output  specified with  this  option
            fails in  any way,  it does  not make  curl  return a  (different)
            error.

            NOTE: On Windows, the %-symbol is a special symbol used  to expand
            environment variables. In batch files,  all occurrences of %  must
            be doubled  when using  this option  to properly  escape. If  this
            option is used at the command prompt then the % cannot  be escaped
            and unintended expansion is possible.

            The variables available are:

            `certs`

                Output the certificate chain  with details. Supported only  by
                the OpenSSL, GnuTLS, Schannel  and Secure Transport  backends.
                (Added in 7.88.0)

            `content_type`

                The Content-Type of the requested document, if there was any.

            `errormsg`

                The error message. (Added in 7.75.0)

            `exitcode`

                The numerical exit code of the transfer. (Added in 7.75.0)

            `filename_effective`

                The ultimate filename that  curl writes out  to. This is  only
                meaningful if  curl  is  told to  write  to a  file  with  the
                --remote-name  or  --output  option.  It  is  most  useful  in
                combination with  the --remote-header-name  option. (Added  in
                7.26.0)

            `ftp_entry_path`

                The initial  path curl  ended up  in when  logging  on to  the
                remote FTP server.

            `header_json`

                A JSON object with all  HTTP response headers from the  recent
                transfer. Values are provided as arrays, since in the case  of
                multiple headers  there  can  be multiple  values.  (Added  in
                7.83.0)

                The header names  provided in  lowercase, listed  in order  of
                appearance over the wire. Except for duplicated headers.  They
                are grouped  on  the first  occurrence  of that  header,  each
                value is presented in the JSON array.

            `http_code`

                The numerical  response  code  that  was  found  in  the  last
                retrieved HTTP(S) or FTP(s) transfer.

            `http_connect`

                The numerical code that was  found in the last response  (from
                a proxy) to a curl CONNECT request.

            `http_version`

                The http version that was effectively used. (Added in 7.50.0)

            `json`

                A JSON object with all available keys. (Added in 7.70.0)

            `local_ip`

                The IP  address of the  local end  of the  most recently  done
                connection - can be either IPv4 or IPv6.

            `local_port`

                The local port number of the most recently done connection.

            `method`

                The http method used in  the most recent HTTP request.  (Added
                in 7.72.0)

            `num_certs`

                Number of server certificates  received in the TLS  handshake.
                Supported only  by the  OpenSSL, GnuTLS,  Schannel and  Secure
                Transport backends. (Added in 7.88.0)

            `num_connects`

                Number of new connects made in the recent transfer.

            `num_headers`

                The number  of response  headers in  the most  recent  request
                (restarted at each  redirect). Note  that the  status line  IS
                NOT a header. (Added in 7.73.0)

            `num_redirects`

                Number of redirects that were followed in the request.

            `onerror`

                The rest of the output is only shown if the  transfer returned
                a non-zero error. (Added in 7.75.0)

            `proxy_ssl_verify_result`

                The  result  of  the   HTTPS  proxy's  SSL  peer   certificate
                verification that was requested. 0 means the verification  was
                successful. (Added in 7.52.0)

            `proxy_used`

                Returns 1 if the previous transfer used a proxy, otherwise  0.
                Useful  to  for  example  determine  if  a  "NOPROXY"  pattern
                matched the hostname or not. (Added in 8.7.0)

            `redirect_url`

                When an HTTP  request was  made without  --location to  follow
                redirects (or when --max-redirs  is met), this variable  shows
                the actual URL a redirect would have gone to.

            `referer`

                The Referer: header, if there was any. (Added in 7.76.0)

            `remote_ip`

                The remote IP address of  the most recently done connection  -
                can be either IPv4 or IPv6.

            `remote_port`

                The remote port number of the most recently done connection.

            `response_code`

                The numerical  response  code  that  was  found  in  the  last
                transfer (formerly known as "http_code").

            `scheme`

                The  URL   scheme  (sometimes   called  protocol)   that   was
                effectively used. (Added in 7.52.0)

            `size_download`

                The total amount of  bytes that were  downloaded. This is  the
                size  of  the  body/data   that  was  transferred,   excluding
                headers.

            `size_header`

                The total amount of bytes of the downloaded headers.

            `size_request`

                The total amount of bytes that were sent in the HTTP request.

            `size_upload`

                The total  amount of  bytes that  were uploaded.  This is  the
                size  of  the  body/data   that  was  transferred,   excluding
                headers.

            `speed_download`

                The  average  download  speed  that  curl  measured  for   the
                complete download. Bytes per second.

            `speed_upload`

                The average upload speed that  curl measured for the  complete
                upload. Bytes per second.

            `ssl_verify_result`

                The result of the SSL  peer certificate verification that  was
                requested. 0 means the verification was successful.

            `stderr`

                From this  point  on, the  --write-out  output is  written  to
                standard error. (Added in 7.63.0)

            `stdout`

                From this  point  on, the  --write-out  output is  written  to
                standard output.  This is  the  default, but  can be  used  to
                switch back after switching to stderr. (Added in 7.63.0)

            `time_appconnect`

                The time,  in  seconds,  it  took from  the  start  until  the
                SSL/SSH/etc  connect/handshake   to   the  remote   host   was
                completed.

            `time_connect`

                The time, in  seconds, it took  from the  start until the  TCP
                connect to the remote host (or proxy) was completed.

            `time_namelookup`

                The time, in seconds,  it took from  the start until the  name
                resolving was completed.

            `time_pretransfer`

                The time, in seconds,  it took from  the start until the  file
                transfer  was  just   about  to  begin.   This  includes   all
                pre-transfer commands and  negotiations that  are specific  to
                the particular protocol(s) involved.

            `time_redirect`

                The time,  in  seconds,  it took  for  all  redirection  steps
                including  name  lookup,  connect,  pretransfer  and  transfer
                before the  final  transaction  was  started.  "time_redirect"
                shows the complete execution time for multiple redirections.

            `time_starttransfer`

                The time, in seconds, it  took from the start until the  first
                byte is received. This includes time_pretransfer and also  the
                time the server needed to calculate the result.

            `time_total`

                The total time, in seconds, that the full operation lasted.

            `url`

                The URL that was fetched. (Added in 7.75.0)

            `url.scheme`

                The scheme part of the URL that was fetched. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `url.user`

                The user part of the URL that was fetched. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `url.password`

                The password  part of  the  URL that  was fetched.  (Added  in
                8.1.0)

            `url.options`

                The options  part  of the  URL  that was  fetched.  (Added  in
                8.1.0)

            `url.host`

                The host part of the URL that was fetched. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `url.port`

                The port  number  of the  URL that  was  fetched. If  no  port
                number was  specified  and  the  URL  scheme  is  known,  that
                scheme's default port number is shown. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `url.path`

                The path part of the URL that was fetched. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `url.query`

                The query part of the URL that was fetched. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `url.fragment`

                The fragment  part of  the  URL that  was fetched.  (Added  in
                8.1.0)

            `url.zoneid`

                The zone  id  part of  the URL  that  was fetched.  (Added  in
                8.1.0)

            `urle.scheme`

                The scheme part of the effective (last) URL that was  fetched.
                (Added in 8.1.0)

            `urle.user`

                The user part of  the effective (last)  URL that was  fetched.
                (Added in 8.1.0)

            `urle.password`

                The password  part  of  the  effective  (last)  URL  that  was
                fetched. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `urle.options`

                The  options  part  of  the  effective  (last)  URL  that  was
                fetched. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `urle.host`

                The host part of  the effective (last)  URL that was  fetched.
                (Added in 8.1.0)

            `urle.port`

                The port number of the effective (last) URL that was  fetched.
                If no port number was specified, but the URL scheme  is known,
                that scheme's default port number is shown. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `urle.path`

                The path part of  the effective (last)  URL that was  fetched.
                (Added in 8.1.0)

            `urle.query`

                The query part of the  effective (last) URL that was  fetched.
                (Added in 8.1.0)

            `urle.fragment`

                The fragment  part  of  the  effective  (last)  URL  that  was
                fetched. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `urle.zoneid`

                The  zone id  part  of  the  effective  (last)  URL  that  was
                fetched. (Added in 8.1.0)

            `urlnum`

                The URL index  number of this  transfer, 0-indexed.  Unglobbed
                URLs share the same  index number as  the origin globbed  URL.
                (Added in 7.75.0)

            `url_effective`

                The URL that was fetched last. This is most meaningful  if you
                have told curl to follow location: headers.

            If --write-out is provided  several times, the  last set value  is
            used.

            Example:
             curl -w '%{response_code}\n' https://example.com

            See also --verbose and --head.

    --xattr
            When saving  output to a  file, this  option tells  curl to  store
            certain file metadata in extended file attributes. Currently,  the
            URL is stored  in the  "xdg.origin.url" attribute  and, for  HTTP,
            the content type is  stored in the  "mime_type" attribute. If  the
            file system does  not support  extended attributes,  a warning  is
            issued.

            Providing --xattr multiple times has  no extra effect. Disable  it
            again with --no-xattr.

            Example:
             curl --xattr -o storage https://example.com

            See also --remote-time, --write-out and --verbose.

FILES

    ~/.curlrc

    Default config file, see --config for details.

ENVIRONMENT

    The environment variables can  be specified in  lower case or upper  case.
    The lower case version has precedence. "http_proxy" is an exception  as it
    is only available in lower case.

    Using an environment  variable to  set the  proxy has the  same effect  as
    using the --proxy option.

    `http_proxy` [protocol://]<host>[:port]

        Sets the proxy server to use for HTTP.

    `HTTPS_PROXY` [protocol://]<host>[:port]

        Sets the proxy server to use for HTTPS.

    `[url-protocol]_PROXY` [protocol://]<host>[:port]

        Sets the proxy server  to use for  [url-protocol], where the  protocol
        is a  protocol that  curl supports  and as  specified in  a URL.  FTP,
        FTPS, POP3, IMAP, SMTP, LDAP, etc.

    `ALL_PROXY` [protocol://]<host>[:port]

        Sets the proxy server to use if no protocol-specific proxy is set.

    `NO_PROXY` <comma-separated list of hosts/domains>

        list of hostnames that should not  go through any proxy. If set to  an
        asterisk '*' only,  it matches all  hosts. Each name  in this list  is
        matched as either a  domain name which  contains the hostname, or  the
        hostname itself.

        This  environment  variable  disables  use  of  the  proxy  even  when
        specified with the --proxy option. That is

            NO_PROXY=direct.example.com curl -x http://proxy.example.com
            http://direct.example.com

        accesses the target URL directly, and

            NO_PROXY=direct.example.com curl -x http://proxy.example.com
            http://somewhere.example.com

        accesses the target URL through the proxy.

        The list of hostnames can also be include numerical IP  addresses, and
        IPv6 versions should then be given without enclosing brackets.

        IP addresses can be specified  using CIDR notation: an appended  slash
        and number specifies the number  of "network bits" out of the  address
        to  use   in   the  comparison   (added   in  7.86.0).   For   example
        "192.168.0.0/16" would match all addresses starting with "192.168".

    `APPDATA` <dir>

        On Windows,  this  variable  is used  when  trying to  find  the  home
        directory. If the primary home variable are all unset.

    `COLUMNS` <terminal width>

        If set, the  specified number of  characters is  used as the  terminal
        width when the  alternative progress-bar  is shown. If  not set,  curl
        tries to figure it out using other ways.

    `CURL_CA_BUNDLE` <file>

        If set, it is  used as the  --cacert value. This environment  variable
        is ignored if Schannel is used as the TLS backend.

    `CURL_HOME` <dir>

        If set, is  the first  variable curl  checks when trying  to find  its
        home directory. If not set, it continues to check XDG_CONFIG_HOME

    `CURL_SSL_BACKEND` <TLS backend>

        If curl was  built with support  for "MultiSSL",  meaning that it  has
        built-in support  for  more than  one  TLS backend,  this  environment
        variable can be  set to the  case insensitive  name of the  particular
        backend to use  when curl  is invoked. Setting  a name that  is not  a
        built-in alternative makes curl stay with the default.

        SSL  backend  names  (case-insensitive):  bearssl,  gnutls,   mbedtls,
        openssl, rustls, schannel, secure-transport, wolfssl

    `HOME` <dir>

        If set, this is used to  find the home directory when that is  needed.
        Like  when   looking   for   the  default   .curlrc.   CURL_HOME   and
        XDG_CONFIG_HOME have preference.

    `QLOGDIR` <directory name>

        If curl  was  built  with HTTP/3  support,  setting  this  environment
        variable to  a  local  directory  makes curl  produce  qlogs  in  that
        directory, using file names named after the destination connection  id
        (in hex).  Do note that  these files  can become  rather large.  Works
        with the ngtcp2 and quiche QUIC backends.

    `SHELL`

        Used on VMS when trying to detect if using a DCL or a unix shell.

    `SSL_CERT_DIR` <dir>

        If set, it is  used as the  --capath value. This environment  variable
        is ignored if Schannel is used as the TLS backend.

    `SSL_CERT_FILE` <path>

        If set, it is  used as the  --cacert value. This environment  variable
        is ignored if Schannel is used as the TLS backend.

    `SSLKEYLOGFILE` <filename>

        If you set this  environment variable to  a filename, curl stores  TLS
        secrets from its connections in  that file when invoked to enable  you
        to analyze the TLS traffic in real time using network  analyzing tools
        such as  Wireshark.  This  works  with  the  following  TLS  backends:
        OpenSSL, libressl, BoringSSL, GnuTLS and wolfSSL.

    `USERPROFILE` <dir>

        On Windows,  this  variable  is used  when  trying to  find  the  home
        directory. If  the other,  primary, variable  are all  unset. If  set,
        curl uses the path "$USERPROFILE\Application Data".

    `XDG_CONFIG_HOME` <dir>

        If CURL_HOME is not set, this  variable is checked when looking for  a
        default .curlrc file.

PROXY PROTOCOL PREFIXES

    The proxy string  may be specified  with a  protocol:// prefix to  specify
    alternative proxy protocols.

    If no protocol is specified in the proxy string or if the string  does not
    match a supported one, the proxy is treated as an HTTP proxy.

    The supported proxy protocol prefixes are as follows:

    http://

        Makes it use it as an HTTP  proxy. The default if no scheme prefix  is
        used.

    https://

        Makes it treated as an HTTPS proxy.

    socks4://

        Makes it the equivalent of --socks4

    socks4a://

        Makes it the equivalent of --socks4a

    socks5://

        Makes it the equivalent of --socks5

    socks5h://

        Makes it the equivalent of --socks5-hostname

EXIT CODES

    There are a bunch of  different error codes and their corresponding  error
    messages that  may appear  under error  conditions. At  the  time of  this
    writing, the exit codes are:

    0

        Success.  The  operation  completed  successfully  according  to   the
        instructions.

    1

        Unsupported protocol.  This build  of  curl has  no support  for  this
        protocol.

    2

        Failed to initialize.

    3

        URL malformed. The syntax was not correct.

    4

        A feature or  option that was  needed to  perform the desired  request
        was not  enabled or  was explicitly  disabled at  build-time. To  make
        curl able to do this, you probably need another build of libcurl.

    5

        Could not resolve proxy. The given proxy host could not be resolved.

    6

        Could not resolve host. The given remote host could not be resolved.

    7

        Failed to connect to host.

    8

        Weird server reply. The server sent data curl could not parse.

    9

        FTP access denied.  The server denied  login or  denied access to  the
        particular resource or directory you  wanted to reach. Most often  you
        tried to change to a directory that does not exist on the server.

    10

        FTP accept failed. While waiting  for the server to connect back  when
        an active  FTP  session is  used,  an error  code  was sent  over  the
        control connection or similar.

    11

        FTP weird PASS reply. Curl could not parse the reply sent to  the PASS
        request.

    12

        During an active FTP session  while waiting for the server to  connect
        back to curl, the timeout expired.

    13

        FTP weird PASV reply, Curl could not parse the reply sent to  the PASV
        request.

    14

        FTP weird 227  format. Curl could  not parse  the 227-line the  server
        sent.

    15

        FTP cannot  use host. Could  not resolve  the host  IP we  got in  the
        227-line.

    16

        HTTP/2 error. A problem was detected in the HTTP2 framing  layer. This
        is somewhat generic and  can be one out  of several problems, see  the
        error message for details.

    17

        FTP could not set binary. Could not change transfer method to binary.

    18

        Partial file. Only a part of the file was transferred.

    19

        FTP could not download/access  the given file,  the RETR (or  similar)
        command failed.

    21

        FTP quote error. A quote command returned error from the server.

    22

        HTTP page not retrieved. The  requested URL was not found or  returned
        another error  with  the HTTP  error code  being  400 or  above.  This
        return code only appears if --fail is used.

    23

        Write error.  Curl  could not  write data  to  a local  filesystem  or
        similar.

    25

        Failed starting the upload. For  FTP, the server typically denied  the
        STOR command.

    26

        Read error. Various reading problems.

    27

        Out of memory. A memory allocation request failed.

    28

        Operation  timeout.  The   specified  time-out   period  was   reached
        according to the conditions.

    30

        FTP PORT failed. The PORT command failed. Not all FTP  servers support
        the PORT command, try doing a transfer using PASV instead.

    31

        FTP could not use REST. The REST command failed. This command  is used
        for resumed FTP transfers.

    33

        HTTP range error. The range "command" did not work.

    34

        HTTP post error. Internal post-request generation error.

    35

        SSL connect error. The SSL handshaking failed.

    36

        Bad download resume. Could not continue an earlier aborted download.

    37

        FILE could not read file. Failed to open the file. Permissions?

    38

        LDAP cannot bind. LDAP bind operation failed.

    39

        LDAP search failed.

    41

        Function not found. A required LDAP function was not found.

    42

        Aborted by callback. An application told curl to abort the operation.

    43

        Internal error. A function was called with a bad parameter.

    45

        Interface error. A specified outgoing interface could not be used.

    47

        Too many redirects.  When following  redirects, curl  hit the  maximum
        amount.

    48

        Unknown option specified to libcurl. This indicates that you passed  a
        weird option to curl that was passed on to libcurl and  rejected. Read
        up in the manual!

    49

        Malformed telnet option.

    52

        The server did not reply anything, which here is considered an error.

    53

        SSL crypto engine not found.

    54

        Cannot set SSL crypto engine as default.

    55

        Failed sending network data.

    56

        Failure in receiving network data.

    58

        Problem with the local certificate.

    59

        Could not use specified SSL cipher.

    60

        Peer certificate cannot be authenticated with known CA certificates.

    61

        Unrecognized transfer encoding.

    63

        Maximum file size exceeded.

    64

        Requested FTP SSL level failed.

    65

        Sending the data requires a rewind that failed.

    66

        Failed to initialize SSL Engine.

    67

        The username, password, or  similar was not  accepted and curl  failed
        to log in.

    68

        File not found on TFTP server.

    69

        Permission problem on TFTP server.

    70

        Out of disk space on TFTP server.

    71

        Illegal TFTP operation.

    72

        Unknown TFTP transfer ID.

    73

        File already exists (TFTP).

    74

        No such user (TFTP).

    77

        Problem reading the SSL CA cert (path? access rights?).

    78

        The resource referenced in the URL does not exist.

    79

        An unspecified error occurred during the SSH session.

    80

        Failed to shut down the SSL connection.

    82

        Could not load CRL file, missing or wrong format.

    83

        Issuer check failed.

    84

        The FTP PRET command failed.

    85

        Mismatch of RTSP CSeq numbers.

    86

        Mismatch of RTSP Session Identifiers.

    87

        Unable to parse FTP file list.

    88

        FTP chunk callback reported error.

    89

        No connection available, the session is queued.

    90

        SSL public key does not matched pinned public key.

    91

        Invalid SSL certificate status.

    92

        Stream error in HTTP/2 framing layer.

    93

        An API function was called from inside a callback.

    94

        An authentication function returned an error.

    95

        A problem was detected in  the HTTP/3 layer. This is somewhat  generic
        and can be  one out  of several  problems, see the  error message  for
        details.

    96

        QUIC connection  error. This error  may be  caused by  an SSL  library
        error. QUIC is the protocol used for HTTP/3 transfers.

    97

        Proxy handshake error.

    98

        A client-side certificate is required to complete the TLS handshake.

    99

        Poll or select returned fatal error.

    100

        A value or data field grew larger than allowed.

    XX

        More error codes might  appear here in  future releases. The  existing
        ones are meant to never change.

BUGS

    If  you experience  any  problems  with  curl,  submit  an  issue  in  the
    project's bug tracker on GitHub: https://github.com/curl/curl/issues

AUTHORS

    Daniel Stenberg is the main author, but the whole list of  contributors is
    found in the separate THANKS file.

WWW

    https://curl.se

SEE ALSO

    ftp (1), wget (1)

